--- PAGE 1 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 1 of 190 
 
Oil India Limited                      CONTRACTS DEPARTMENT 
(A Govt. of India Enterprise)     TEL:   (91) 374-2800548              
P.O. DULIAJAN, DIST. DIBRUGARH,  E-mail: contracts@oilindia.in 
ASSAM, INDIA, PIN-786 602             Website: www.oil-india.com                       
                                            FAX:   (91)374-2803549 
_____________________________________________________________________________________                                       _____ 
FORWARDING LETTER 
 
M/s________________________       
 
___________________________ 
 
_____________________   
 
Sub: IFB No. CDG3685P15 for Supply, Installation and Commissioning of 
Natural Gas Engine Based Power Plant at Kumchai in Arunachal Pradesh  
to be owned by Oil India Limited  and subsequent Operation & 
Maintenance of the Plant for 10(Ten) years  
 
Dear Sirs, 
1.0 OIL INDIA LIMITED (OIL), a “Navaratna ” Category, Government of India 
Enterprise, is a premier oil Company engaged in exploration, production and 
transportation of crude oil & natural gas with its Headquarters at Duliajan, 
Assam. Duliajan is well connected by Air with nearest Airport being at 
Dibrugarh, 45 km away. 
 
2.0 In connection with its operations, OIL invites International Competitive 
Bids (ICB) from competent and experienced Contractors through OIL‟s e -
procurement site for Supply, Installation and Commissioning of Natural Gas 
Engine Driven Power Plant at Kumchai in Arunachal Pradesh to be owned by Oil 
India Limited and subsequent Operation & Maintenance of the Plant for 10(Ten) 
years. One complete set of Bid Document covering OIL's IFB for hiring of above 
services is uploaded in OIL‟s  e-procurement portal. You are invited to submit 
your most competitive bid on or before the scheduled bid closing date and time 
through OIL‟s e-procurement portal. For your ready reference, few salient points 
of the IFB (covered in detail in the Bid Document) are highlighted below: 
 
(i)   IFB No.:   CDG3685P15 
  
(ii) Type of IFB :  Single Stage-2(two) Bid System 
 
(iii) Last Date of receipt of Pre-Bid: 04.07.2014  upto 15:30 Hrs (IST) 
 Queries 
 
(iv) Pre-bid conference:  07.07.2014 at 9-30 hrs (IST)  
 
(v) Venue of Pre-Bid Conference:  Kolkata/Guwahati (Exact venue shall be 
communicated to the prospective 
bidders nearer the time) 


--- PAGE 2 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 2 of 190 
 
(vi) Bid Closing Date & Time:    31.07.2014 at 11-00 hrs. (IST)  
 
(vii)  Bid Opening Date & Time:  31.07.2014 at 14-00 hrs. (IST) 
 
(viii) Priced Bid Opening Date:  Will be   intimated to   the   eligible  
 & Time     bidders nearer the time 
 
(ix)  Bid Submission Mode:  Bid should be uploaded in OIL‟s E- 
      Procurement portal  
           
(x)  Bid Opening Place: Office of the Head-Contracts 
      Oil India Limited 
      Duliajan – 786602, Assam, India 
 
(xi)   Bid Validity :  180 days from date of Closing of bid  
 
(xii) Mobilisation Time: Within 15 days from the date of issue of 
LOA by OIL 
 
(xiii) Bid Security Amount: Rs. 78,06,000.00 or US$ 1,30,750.00   
 
(xiv) Bid Security Validity: 210 days from date of closing of bid 
 
(xv) Amount of Performance: For Project: 7.5 % of the total contract          
Security   value (excluding O&M charges for  
    10 years)  
                    
 For O&M: 7.5 % of the Annual O&M 
contract Cost      
    
(xvi) Validity of Performance Security: For Project: Up to 15 months from date 
of completion of contract  (including 
warranty period of 12 months) 
       
     For O&M: Up to 6 months from date of 
completion of O&M 
 
(xvii)  Duration of the Contract:  For Completion of the Project & 
Commissioning of the Plant on LSTK 
basis: 3 months  
   
  For Operation & Maintenance Of The 
Facilities: 10(Ten) years from the date 
of Commissioning of the Plant. 
   
(xviii)  Quantum of Liquidated Damage:   0.5% of total cost of the contract 
  for Default in Timely Completion for delay per week or part thereof 
subject to maximum of 7.5%. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 3 of 190 
 
(xix)  Bids to be addressed to:  HEAD-CONTRACTS 
               OIL INDIA LIMITED 
               DULIAJAN - 786 602 
                          ASSAM, INDIA  
 
3.0 Integrity Pact :   
 The Integrity Pact must be uploaded in OIL‟s E -procurement portal along 
with the Technical Bid digitally signed by the same signatory who signed the Bid 
i.e. who is duly authorized to sign the Bid. Any Bid not accompanied by the 
Integrity Pact digitally signed by the bidder shall be rejected straightway.  
Uploading the Integrity Pact with digital signature will be construed that all 
pages of the Integrity Pact has been sign ed by the bidder‟s authorized signatory 
who signs the Bid. 
 
4.0 Pre-Bid Conference: 
4.1 A pre -Bid conference will be held at Kolkata/Guwahati, India on 
07.07.2014 or on the dates as indicated in the online tender for providing 
clarifications to prospective bidders on Bid  Rejection Criteria(BRC)/Bid 
Evaluation Criteria(BEC), Terms of Reference/Technical Specifications, Terms 
and conditions of the IFB to enable them to understand the exact service 
requirement of the Company. The parties who purchase the bid documents are 
invited to the Pre -Bid conference. For details of the venue, bidders may contact 
Head-Contracts, Oil India Ltd., P.O. Duliajan -786602, Phone: 91-374-
2808812/2800548,Fax#(91)374-2803549,E-mail: contracts@oilindia.in. Foreign 
bidder may also request Head -Contracts for an invitation letter, if required, for 
the purpose of visa for attending the conference.  
 
4.2 At the most 2 (two) representatives from each prospective bidder shall be 
allowed to participate in the pre -bid conference. All costs for attending the pre -
bid conference shall be to prospective bidders‟ account. 
 
4.3 The prospective bidders shall submit their queries through E -mail / Fax / 
Courier addressed to Head -Contracts, Oil India Ltd., Duliajan -786602, Assam 
prior to the date of pre -bid conference and such que ries must reach OIL‟s office 
at Duliajan latest by 04.07.2014 or the date as mentioned in the on-line tender. 
OIL shall provide clarifications to the queries in the pre -bid conference. OIL will 
not be responsible for non -receipt or late receipt of any bidd er‟s query in OIL‟s 
office. A soft copy of the queries in the word file shall also be submitted by the 
parties.  
 
5.0 GUIDELINES FOR PARTICIPATING IN OIL’S E-PROCUREMENT: 
To participate in OIL ‟s E -procurement tender, bidders should have a 
legally valid digital certificate of Class 3 with Organizations Name  as per 
Indian IT Act from the licensed Certifying Authorities operating under the Root 
Certifying Authority of India (RCAI), Controller of C ertifying Authorities (CCA) of 
India (http://www.cca.gov.in). Bidders must have a valid User ID to access OIL 
e-Procurement site for submission of bid. Interested parties shall request OIL in 
their official letter head giving the detailed address and E -mail letter along with 

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 4 of 190 
 
the cost of bid document as indicated in the NIT for issue of the User ID and 
password for accessing the E -procurement tender. The User ID shall be 
intimated to the eligible parties through email on receipt of the requisite cost of 
the bid document. Parties already in possession of OIL User ID and Password 
shall be eligible for accessing the tender in E -portal after enabling them by OIL 
in the E -portal which shall be done after receipt of the requisite cost of the bid 
document. In case a ny bidder is eligible for exemption from paying the tender 
fee, they should request OIL with supporting documents for issue of the User ID 
& Password on free of charge basis. Parties, who do not have a User ID, can 
click on Guest login button in the E -portal to view the available open tenders. 
The detailed guidelines are available in OIL‟s e -procurement site ( Help 
Documentation). For any clarification in this regard, bidders may contact             
Mr A. J. Sarmah, Sr. Manager ( ERP-MM) at  arupsarmah@oilindia.in, Ph.: 
09954486025(M). 
 
6.0 IMPORTANT NOTES : 
Bidders shall take note of the following important points while 
participating in OIL‟s e-procurement tender: 
 
i) The bid along with all supporting documents must be submitted 
through OIL ‟s E -procurement site only except the following 
documents which shall be submitted manually by the bidder in two 
copies in a sealed envelope superscribed with OIL‟s IFB No. , Bid 
Closing date and marked as “Original Bid Security ” and addressed 
to Head-Contracts, Contracts Department, Oil India Limited, 
Duliajan-786602, Assam(India) : 
 
a) Original Bid Security 
b) Printed catalogue and Literature, if called for in the tender.  
c) Power of Attorney for signing the bid.  
d) Any other document required to be submit ted in original as 
per tender requirement. 
 
The above documents including the Original bid security, must 
be received at OIL’s Head -Contract’s office at Duliajan on or 
before 12.45 Hrs(IST) on the bid closing date failing which the 
bid shall be rejected. A scanned copy of the Bid Security shall also 
be uploaded by the bidder along with their Technical Bid in OIL‟s E -
procurement site. 
 
ii) Bid should be submitted online in OIL‟s E -procurement site up to 
11.00 AM (IST) (Server Time) on the date as mentioned and will be 
opened on the same day at 2.00 PM (IST) at the office of the Head -
Contracts in presence of the authorized representatives of the 
bidders. 
 
iii) The authenticity of digital signature shall be verified through 
authorized CA after bid opening. If the digital signature used for 

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 5 of 190 
 
signing is not of “Class -3” with Organizations name, the bid will be 
rejected. 
 
iv) The tender is invited under SINGLE STAGE -TWO BID SYSTEM. The 
bidders shall submit both the “TECHNICAL” and “PRI CED” bids 
through electronic form in the OIL‟s e-Procurement portal within the 
Bid Closing Date and Time stipulated in the e-Tender. The Technical 
Bid should be submitted as per Scope of Work & Technical 
Specifications along with all technical documents re lated to the 
tender and uploaded “Technical RFx Response” Tab only . 
Bidders to note that no price details should be uploaded in 
“Technical RFx Response” Tab Page . Deta ils of prices as per 
Price Bid format/Priced bid can be uploaded as Attachment just 
below the “Tendering Text” in the attachment option under 
“Notes & Attachments” tab . A screen shot in this regard is 
shown below. Offer not complying with above submission 
procedure will be rejected  as per Bid Rejection Criteria 
mentioned in Part-2 (Refer Clause 1.0 of (B) Commercial). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Go to this Tab “Technical 
RFx Response” for 
Uploading “Technical Bid”. 
Go to this Tab “Notes 
and Attachments” for 
Uploading “Priced Bid” 
files. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 6 of 190 
 
On “EDIT” Mode - The following screen will appear. Bidders are advised to 
upload “Technical Bid” and “Priced Bid” in the places as indicated above: 
 
 
Note: 
* The “Technical Bid” shall contain all techno -commercial details except 
the prices. 
 
** The “Priced bid” must contain the price schedule and the bidder‟s 
commercial terms and conditions, if any.  For uploading Price Bid, first 
click on Sign Attachment, a browser window will open, select the file 
from the PC and click on “Sign” to sign the file. On Signing a new file 
with extension .SSIG will be created. Close that window. Next click on 
Add Atachment, a browser window will open, select the .SSIG signed 
file from the PC and name the file under Description, Assigned to 
General Data and click on OK to save the File. 
 
7.0  OIL now looks forward to your active participation in the IFB. 
 
Thanking you, 
    
        
Yours faithfully, 
OIL INDIA LIMITED  
 
  
(M Ali) 
HEAD-CONTRACTS 
For RESIDENT CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
Bid on “EDIT” Mode 
Area for uploading 
Technical Bid*  
Area for uploading 
Priced Bid** 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 7 of 190 
 
PART - 1 
INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS 
 
1.0  Bidder shall bear all costs associated with the preparation and 
submission of bid. Oil India Limited, hereinafter referred to as Company, 
will in no case be responsible or liable for those costs, regardless of the 
conduct or outcome of the bidding process. 
  
A.   BID DOCUMENTS  
2.0 The services required, bidding procedures and contract terms are 
prescribed in the Bid Document. This Bid Document includes the 
following: 
 
(a)  A Forwarding Letter highlighting the following points: 
(i)  Company‟s IFB No. 
(ii)  Bid closing date and time 
(iii) Bid opening date and time 
(iv) Bid submission Mode 
(v) Bid opening place 
(vi) Bid validity, Mobilisation time & Duration of contract 
(vii) The amount of Bid Security with validity 
(viii) The amount of Performance Guarantee with validity 
(ix) Quantum of liquidated damages for default in timely 
completion 
(b)    Instructions to Bidders, (Part-1) 
(c)    Bid Evaluation Criteria/Bid Rejection Criteria, (Part-2) 
(d)  General Conditions of Contract, (Section-I) 
(e)  Terms of Reference/Technical Specification, (Section-II) 
(f)  Special Conditions of Contract, (Section-III) 
(g) Schedule of Rates, (Section-IV) 
(h) Integrity Pact Proforma, (Annexure-A) 
(i) Price Schedule Format, (Proforma-B) 
(j)      Bid Form, (Proforma-C) 
(k)     Statement of Non-Compliance, (Proforma-D) 
(l)     Bid Security Form, (Proforma-E) 
(m)     Performance Security Form, (Proforma-F) 
(n)    Agreement Form, (Proforma-G) 
(o) Proforma of Letter of Authority, (Proforma-H) 
(p) Authorisation for Attending Bid Opening, (Proforma-I) 
 
 
2.1   The bidder is expected to examine all instructions, forms, terms and 
specifications in the Bid Documents. Failure to furnish all information 
required in the Bid Documents or submission of a bid not substantially 
responsive to the Bid Documents in every respect will be at the Bidder's 
risk & responsibility and may result in the rejection of its bid. 
 

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 8 of 190 
 
3.0  TRANSFERABILITY OF BID DOCUMENTS: 
3.1  Bid Documents are non -transferable. Bid can be submitted only in the 
name of the bidder in whose name the Bid Document has been issued. 
  
 3.2  Unsolicited bids will not be considered and will be rejected straightway. 
 
4.0 AMENDMENT OF BID DOCUMENTS: 
4.1  At any time prior to the deadline for submission of bids, the Company 
may, for any reason, whether at its own initiative or in response to a 
clarification requested by a prospective Bidder, modify the Bid Documents 
through issuance of an Addendum. 
 
4.2   The Addendum will be uploaded in OIL‟s E-Tender Portal in the “Technical 
RFx Response”  under the tab “Amendments to Tender Documents”. All 
prospective bidders to whom Company has issued the Bidding Documents  
shall also be intimated about the amendments thro ugh post/courier or by 
Fax or e-mail. The Company may, at its discretion, extend the deadline for 
bid submission, if the Bidders are expected to require additional time in 
which to take the Addendum into account in preparation of their bid or for 
any other reason. Bidders shall also check from time to time the E -Tender 
portal [“Technical RFx Response” under the tab “Amendments to Tender 
Documents”] for any amendments to the bid documents before 
submission of their bids.   
 
B.      PREPARATION OF BIDS 
5.0  LANGUAGE OF BIDS : The bid as well as all correspondence and 
documents relating to the bid exchanged between the Bidder and the 
Company shall be in English language, except that any printed literature 
may be in another language provided it is accompanied by an official and 
notarised English translated version, which shall govern for the purpose of 
bid interpretation. 
 
5.1 BIDDER’S/AGENT’S NAME & ADDRESS: Bidders should indicate in 
their bids their detailed postal address including the Fax/Telephone / Cell 
Phone Nos. and E -mail address. Similar information should also be 
provided in respect of their authorised Agents in India, if any. 
  
6.0   DOCUMENTS COM PRISING THE BID : Bids are invited under Single 
Stage Two Bid System. The bid to be uploaded by the Bidder in OIL‟s E -
Tender portal shall comprise of the following components: 
 
 (A) TECHNICAL BID 
(i)  Complete technical details of the services and equipment  
specifications with catalogue, etc. 
(ii)  Documentary evidence established in accordance with Clause 10.0. 
(iii)  Bid Security (scanned) in accordance with Clause 11.0 hereunder. 
Original Bid Security should be sent as per Clause No. 11.10 below.  
(iv) Copy of Bid-Form without indicating prices in Proforma-C  

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 9 of 190 
 
 
(v) Statement of Non-compliance as per Proforma–D         
(vi) Copy of Priced Bid without indicating prices (Proforma-B) 
(vii) Integrity Pact digitally signed by OIL ‟s competent personnel as 
Annexure-A attached with the bid document to be digitally signed 
by the bidder.  
 
(B) PRICED BID 
Bidder shall quote their prices in the following Proforma available in 
OIL‟s E-procurement portal in the “Notes & Attachments” Tab:  
(i) Price-Bid Format as per Proforma-B  
(ii) Bid Form as per Proforma-C 
 
 
 The Priced Bid shall contain the prices along with the currency quoted 
and any other commercial information pertaining to the service offered. 
 
7.0  BID FORM: The bidder shall complete the B id Form and the appropriate 
Price Schedule furnished in their Bid. 
 
8.0 BID PRICE:  
8.1     Prices must be quoted by the Bidders online as per the price bid format 
available in OIL‟s E - Tender Portal in “ Notes & Attachment ” Tab. Unit 
prices must be quoted by the bidders, both in words and in figures.  
 
8.2   Prices quoted by the successful bidder must remain firm during its 
performance of the Contract and is not subject to variation on any 
account. 
      
8.3   All duties and taxes (excluding Service Tax) in cluding Corporate Income 
Tax, Personal Tax, Assam Entry Tax< Arunachal Pradesh entry Tax, octroi 
etc. and other Cess/levies payable by the successful bidder under the 
Contract for which this Bid Document is being issued, shall be included in 
the rates, pri ces and total Bid Price submitted by the bidder, and the 
evaluation and comparison of bids shall be made accordingly. For 
example, personal taxes and/or any corporate taxes arising out of the 
profits on the contract as per rules of the country shall be bor ne by the 
bidder. 
 
8.4 The Bidder shall quote their all-inclusive price for the entire Scope of 
Work in accordance with the Schedule of Rates (Section – IV) of this 
tender document.  
   
8.5 Site Work 
 Cost of all site work as per Technical - Scope of Work ( Section-II of this 
tender document) and in accordance with General & Special Conditions 
of Contract (i.e. Section -I & Section -III respectively of this tender 
document) related to (but not limited to) site transportation, safe storage/ 

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 10 of 190 
 
security of all mater ials at site, erection / construction / creation / 
installation, testing, acceptance tests and trial run up to successful 
commissioning of the Plant including rectification of defects / 
malfunctioning during the specified commissioning period. 
 
8.6 Operation & Maintenance 
 Cost of Operation & Maintenance of the plants as per Technical- Scope of 
Work ( Section-II of this document) and in accordance with General & 
Special Conditions of Contract (i.e. Section -I & Section -III respectively of 
this document), inclusiv e of all taxes and duties but  excluding Service 
tax, which shall be to OIL‟s account during the currency of the Contract 
for a period of 10(Ten) years after successful commissioning and 
Acceptance of the Plant by OIL. 
 
8.7 General 
a) The bidder‟s quoted price against all items as per Schedule of Rates 
(Section-IV) of this tender document shall be inclusive of, amongst 
others, basic & detailed design. 
 
b) The Bidder‟s quoted total price shall be inclusive of installation & 
commissioning charges; all taxes, duties and levies as applicable on the 
Works/offered goods and services under the Contract. The Service Tax 
as applicable shall be extra to OIL‟s account. 
    
c) All demurrage, wharfage and other expenses incurred due to delayed 
clearance of goods, or for any other reasons, either at Indian port of 
entry, or at any clearing point, shall be to the successful bidder‟s 
account. The successful bidder shall be responsible for making all 
necessary arrangements for complying with all necessary formalities at 
the Indian port of entry. 
 
d) It is for the bidder to assess and ascertain applicability of taxes, duties, 
levies etc. applicable under the Contract. It is clearly understood that 
except for the specific provision covered in these conditions, the 
Company will not have any l iability, whatsoever, on account of taxes, 
duties, levies etc., till the complete execution of the Contract. The 
Company will also not have any liability, whatsoever, on account of 
taxes, duties, levies etc. which are based on the bidder‟s wrong 
assessment/ interpretation of applicability of such taxes, duties, levies 
etc. 
 
e) If any tax is deductible at source as per Govt. laws, rules and 
regulations, the same will be so deducted by the Company from the 
Contractor‟s bills before releasing payments, and necessary certificate to 
that effect will be issued. 
f) Inspection/ certification of all goods/ services & works at all stages 
shall be done by Company or its authorised representative for which no 
extra charges shall be borne by the Company. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 11 of 190 
 
g) Nil Custom Duty shall not be applicable against this tender. 
Indigineous bidders are requested to quote their Non -Deemed Export 
prices. 
 
9.0 CURRENCIES OF BID AND PAYMENT: 
9.1   A bidder expecting to incur its expenditures in the performance of the 
Contract in more than one currency, and wishing to be paid accordingly, 
shall so indicate in the bid. In such a case, the bid shall be expressed in 
different currencies and the respective amounts in each currency shall 
together make up the total price. 
 
9.2   Indian bidders too can submit their bids in any currency (including Indian 
Rupees) and receive payment in such currencies on par with foreign 
bidders. However, currency once quoted will not be allowed to be changed. 
- 
10.0  DOCUMENTS ESTABLISHING BIDDER'S ELIGIBILITY AND  
QUALIFICATIONS:  
10.1 These are listed in BID REJECTION CRITERIA (BRC) / BID EVALUATION 
CRITERIA (BEC), PART-2 of the Bid document. 
 
11.0 BID SECURITY: 
11.1  The Bid Security is required to protect the Company against the risk of 
Bidder's conduct, which wo uld warrant forfeiture of the Bid Security, 
pursuant to sub-clause 11.8. 
 
11.2 All the bids must be accompanied by Bid Security in Original for the 
amount as mentioned in the “Forwarding Letter” or an equivalent amount 
in other freely convertible currency and shall be in any one of the 
following forms:  
 
(a)   A Bank Guarantee or irrevocable Letter of Credit in the prescribed 
format vide Proforma-E or in another form acceptable to the 
Company: Bank Guarantee/LC issued from any of the following 
Banks only will be accepted: 
 
i) Any Nationalised / scheduled Bank in India       or 
ii) Any Indian branch of a Foreign Bank       or 
iii) Any reputed foreign Bank having correspondent Bank in India 
 
The Bank Guarantee / LC shall be valid for 30 days beyond the 
validity of the bids asked for in the Bid Document. 
 
Bank Guarantees issued by Banks in India should be on non -
judicial stamp paper of requisite value, as per Indian Stamp Act, 
purchased in the name of the Banker. 
 
 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 12 of 190 
 
(b)  A Cashier's cheque or Demand Draft drawn on „Oil India Limited‟ 
and payable at Duliajan, Assam. 
 
11.3 Any bid not secured in accordance with sub -clause 11.2 above shall be 
rejected by the Company as non-responsive. 
 
11.4 The bidders shall extend the validity of the Bid Security suitably, if and 
when specifically advised by OIL, at the bidder‟s cost. 
 
11.5  Unsuccessful Bidder's Bid Security will be discharged and/or returned 
within 30 days after finalization of IFB. 
 
11.6 Successful Bidder's Bid Security will be discharged and/or returned upon 
Bidder's furnishing the Performance Security and signing of the contract. 
Successful bidder will however ensure validity of the Bid Security till such 
time the Performance Security in  conformity with Clause 29.0 below is 
furnished. 
 
11.7 Bid Security shall not accrue any interest during its period of validity or 
extended validity. 
 
11.8 The Bid Security may be forfeited: 
 
i) If any bidder withdraws their Bid during the period of bid validity   
ii) If any bidder alters their Bid during the period of bid validity or if 
the bidder increases the price during the period of bid validity. 
iii) If the bidder does not accept the LOA issued by Company within the 
validity of the bid 
 iv)  If the bid is accepted by OIL, and work is awarded but the 
contractor does not furnish the Performance Security. 
 
11.9 In case any bidder withdraws their bid during the period of bid validity, 
Bid Security will be forfeited and the party shall be debarred for a period 
of 2(two) years. 
 
11.10 The scanned copy of the original Bid Security in the form of either Bank 
Guarantee or LC or Cashier Cheque or Bank Draft must be uploaded by 
bidder along with the Technical bid in the “Technical RFx Response ” of 
OIL‟s E-portal. The original Bid Security shall be submitted by bidder to 
the office of Head -Contracts, Oil India Ltd., Duliajan -786602(Assam), 
India in a sealed envelope which must reach Head -Contract‟s office on or 
before 12.45 Hrs (IST) on the Bid Closing date faili ng which the bid shall 
be rejected. 
 
12.0 EXEMPTION FROM SUBMISSION OF BID SECURITY: 
12.1 Central Govt. offices, Central Public Sector undertakings and firms 
registered with NSIC /Directorate of Industries are exempted from 
submitting Bid Security. However the firms registered with NSIC 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 13 of 190 
 
/Directorate of Industries shall have to submit evidence t hat they have a 
current and valid registration for the service they intend to bid including 
the prescribed monetary limit. 
 
13.0 PERIOD OF VALIDITY OF BIDS: 
13.1 Bids shall remain valid for 180  days from the date of closing of bid 
prescribed by the Company. Bids of shorter validity will be rejected as 
being non-responsive. If nothing is mentioned by the bidder in their bid 
about the bid validity, it will be presumed that the bid is valid for 180  
days from Bid Closing Date. 
 
13.2 In exceptional circumstances, the Company may solicit the Bidder's 
consent to an extension of the period of validity. The request and the 
response thereto shall be made in writing through Fax or e -mail. The Bid 
Security provided under Para 11.0 above shall also be suitably extended. 
A Bidder may refuse the request without forfeiting its Bid Security. A 
Bidder granting the request will neither be required nor permitted to 
modify their Bid. 
 
14.0 SIGNING OF BID: 
14.1  Bids are to be submitted online through OIL‟s E -procurement portal with 
digital signature. The bid and all attached documents should be digitally 
signed by the bidder using “Class 3” digital certificates with Organizations 
Name [e-commerce application (Certifica te with personal verification and 
Organisation Name)] as per Indian IT Act 2000 obtained from the licensed 
Certifying Authorities operating under the Root Certifying Authority of 
India (RCAI), Controller of Certifying Authorities (CCA) of India before bid 
is uploaded.  
 
The bid including all uploaded documents shall be digitally signed by duly 
authorized representative of the bidder holding a Power of Attorney to bind 
the Bidder to the contract. 
 
If any modifications are made to a document after attaching digital 
signature, the digital signature shall again be attached to such documents 
before uploading the same. The Power of Attorney in original shall be 
submitted by bidder as mentioned in Para 15.1 below.  
 
The authenticity of above digital signature shall be verified through 
authorized CA after bid opening and in case the digital signature is not of 
“Class-3” with organization name, the bid will be rejected. 
 
Bidder is responsible for ensuring th e validity of digital signature and its 
proper usage by their employees.    
 
14.2  The original and all copies of the bid shall be typed or written in indelible 
inks. Since bids are to be submitted ONLINE with digital signature, 
manual signature is NOT rel evant. The letter of authorisation (as per 

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 14 of 190 
 
Proforma-H) shall be indicated by written Power of Attorney 
accompanying the Bid.  
 
14.3 Any person signing the Bid or any other document in respect of this 
Bidding Document or other relevant documents on behalf of the Bidder 
without disclosing his authority to do so shall be deemed to have the 
authority to bind the Bidder. If it is discovered at any time that the person 
so signing has no authority to do so, the Company ( OIL) may, without 
prejudice to any other right or remedy, cancel his Bid or Contract and hold 
the Bidder liable to the Company (OIL) for all costs and damages arising 
from the cancellation of the Bid or Contract including any loss which the 
Company (OIL) may sustain on account thereof. 
 
14.4   Any physical documents submitted by bidders shall contain no 
interlineations, white fluid erasures or overwriting except as necessary to 
correct errors made by the Bidder, in which case such correction shall be 
initialled by the person or persons who has/have digitally signed the Bid. 
 
14.5 Any Bid, which is incomplete, ambiguous, or not in compliance with the 
Bidding process will be rejected. 
 
15.0  SUBMISSION OF BIDS  
15.1 The tender is processed under single stage - Two bid system. Bidder shall 
submit the Technical bid and Priced bid  along with all the Annexures and 
Proforma (wherever applicable) and copies of documents in electronic form 
through OIL‟s e -procurement portal within the Bid Closing Date &  Time 
stipulated in the e -tender. For submission of Bids online at OIL‟s E -
Tender Portal, detailed instructions is available in “HELP 
DOCUMENTATION” available in OIL‟s E-Tender Portal. Guidelines for bid 
submission are also provided in the “Forwarding Lett er”. The Technical 
Bid is to be submitted as per Terms of Reference/Technical Specifications 
of the bid document and Priced Bid as per the Price Schedule. The 
Technical Bid should be uploaded in the “Technical RFx Response ” Tab  
only. Prices to be quoted a s per Proforma -B should be uploaded as 
Attachment just below the “Tendering Text” in the attachment option  
under “ Notes & Attachments ” Tab in the e -portal. No price should be 
given in the “Technical RFx Response” , otherwise bid shall be 
rejected. The priced bid should not be submitted in physical form which 
shall not be considered.  
 
However, the following documents in two sets should necessarily be 
submitted in physical form in sealed envelope superscribing the “IFB No., 
Brief Description of serv ices and Bid Closing/Opening date & Time along 
with the bidder‟s name and should be submitted to Head -Contracts, Oil 
India Ltd., Duliajan -786602(Assam) on or before 12.45 Hrs ( IST) on the 
bid closing date indicated in the IFB : 
 
i) The Original Bid Security along with 2(two) copies 

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 15 of 190 
 
ii) Power of Attorney for signing of the bid digitally 
iii) Any other document required to be submitted in original as per bid 
document requirement. 
iv) Printed catalogue and literature if called for in the bid document. 
 
Documents sent through E-mail/Fax/Telex/Telegraphic/Telephonic will 
not be considered.  
 
15.2  All the conditions of the contract to be made with the successful bidder 
are given in various Sections of the Bid Document. Bidders are requested 
to state their non-compliance to each clause as per Proforma -D of the bid 
document and the same should be uploaded along with the Technical Bid.  
 
15.3 Timely delivery of the documents in physical form as stated in Para 15.1 
above is the responsibility of the bidder. Bidders should send the sa me 
through Registered Post or by Courier Services or by hand delivery to the 
Officer in Charge of the particular tender before the Bid Closing Date and 
Time. Company shall not be responsible for any postal delay/transit loss. 
 
15.4 Bids received through th e e -procurement portal shall only be accepted. 
Bids received in any other form shall not be accepted.  
 
16.0 INDIAN AGENTS:  Foreign Bidders are requested to clearly indicate in 
their bid whether they have any agent in India. If so, the bidders should 
furnish the name and address of their agents and state clearly whether 
these agents are authorized to receive any commission. The rate of the 
commission included in the rates quoted by bidder should be indicated 
which would be payable to Agent in non -convertible Indian currency 
according to Import Trade Regulation of India. Unless otherwise specified, 
it will be assumed that an agency commission is not involved in the 
particular Bid. Further, Bidders are requested to submit their bid directly 
and not through the ir agents in India. Against this tender, either the 
Indian agent on behalf of the Principal/OEM or Principal/ OEM itself can 
bid but both cannot bid simultaneously for the same item/product. If an 
agent submits bid on behalf of the Principal/OEM, the same agent shall 
not submit a bid on behalf of another Principal/OEM in the same tender 
for the same item/product. 
 
17.0 DEADLINE FOR SUBMISSION OF BIDS:  
17.1 Bids should be submitted on -line as per the online tender submission 
deadline. Bidders will not be permitted by System to make any changes in 
their bid/quote after the bid has been submitted by the bidder.  Bidder 
may however request Head -Contracts, Oil India Ltd., Duliajan for 
returning their bids/quote before the original bid closing date and time for 
resubmission. But no such request would be entertained once the 
submission deadline has reached or bids are opened.  
 
17.2 No bid can be submitted after the submission dead line is reached. The 

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 16 of 190 
 
system time displayed on the e -procurement web page shall decide the 
submission dead line.  
 
17.3 The documents in physical form as stated in Para 15.1 must be received 
by Company at the address specified in the “Forwarding Letter” on or 
before 12.45 Hrs(IST) on the Bid Closing Date mentioned in the 
"Forwarding Letter". Timely delivery of the same at the address mentioned 
in the Forwarding Letter is the responsibility of the Bidders. 
 
18.0 LATE BIDS: Bidders are advised in their own interest to ensure that their 
bids are uploaded in system before the closing date and time of the bid. 
The d ocuments in physical form if received by the Company after the 
deadline for submission prescribed by the Company shall be rejected and 
shall be returned to the Bidders in unopened condition immediately.  
 
19.0 MODIFICATION AND WITHDRAWAL OF BIDS: 
19.1 The Bidder after submission of Bid may modify or withdraw its Bid by 
written notice prior to Bid Closing Date & Time. 
 
19.2 The Bidder's modification or withdrawal notice may also be sent by fax/e -
mail but followed by a signed confirmation copy, postmarked not  later 
than the deadline for submission of Bids. 
 
19.3 No Bid can be modified or withdrawn subsequent to the deadline for 
submission of Bids. 
 
19.4  Once a withdrawal letter is received from any bidder, the offer will be 
treated as withdrawn and no further  claim/correspondences will be 
entertained in this regard. 
 
19.5 No Bid can be withdrawn in the interval between the deadline for 
submission of Bids and the expiry of the period of Bid Validity specified by 
the Bidder on the Bid Form. Withdrawal of a Bid during this interval shall 
result in the Bidder's forfeiture of it s Bid Security and bidder shall also be 
debarred from participation in future tenders of OIL. 
 
20.0 EXTENSION OF BID SUBMISSION DATE: 
 Normally no request for extension of Bid Closing Date & Time will be 
entertained. However, OIL  at its discretion, may extend the Bid Closing 
Date and/or Time due to any reasons. In case of receipt of only one Bid on 
the Bid Closing Date and Time, OIL may extend the Bid Closing /Opening 
Date by 2(two) weeks. However, the bidder whose bid has been re ceived 
within the bid closing date and time, will not be allowed to revise their 
Bid/prices. Withdrawal of such Bid is also not permitted.  
 
21.0 BID OPENING AND EVALUATION: 
21.1 Company will open the Technical Bids, including submission made 
pursuant to c lause 19.0, in presence of Bidder's representatives who 

--- PAGE 17 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 17 of 190 
 
choose to attend at the date, time and place mentioned in the Forwarding 
Letter. However, an authorisation letter (as per Proforma-I) from the 
Bidder must be produced by the Bidder's representative at  the time of Bid 
Opening. Unless this Letter is presented, the representative will not be 
allowed to attend the Bid Opening. The Bidder's representatives who are 
allowed to attend the Bid Opening shall sign a register evidencing their 
attendance. Only one representative against each Bid will be allowed to 
attend. In technical bid opening, only “Technical RFx Response ” will be 
opened. Bidders therefore should ensure that technical bid is uploaded in 
the “Technical RFx Response” Tab Page only in the E-portal. 
 
21.2  In case of any unscheduled holiday or Bandh on the Bid Opening Date, 
the Bids will be opened on the next full working day. Accordingly, Bid 
Closing Date / time will get extended up to the next working day and time. 
 
21.3  Bid for which an acceptabl e notice of withdrawal has been received 
pursuant to clause 19.0 shall not be opened. Company will examine bids 
to determine whether they are complete, whether requisite Bid Securities 
have been furnished, whether documents have been digitally signed and 
whether the bids are generally in order. 
 
21.4 At bid opening, Company will announce the Bidder's names, written 
notifications of bid modifications or withdrawal, if any, the presence of 
requisite Bid Security, and such other details as the Company may 
consider appropriate. 
 
21.5 Company shall prepare, for its own records, minutes of bid opening 
including the information disclosed to those present in accordance with 
the sub-clause 21.3. 
 
21.6 Normally no clarifications shall be sought from the Bidders. However, for 
assisting in the evaluation of the bids especially on the issues where the 
Bidder confirms compliance in the evaluation and contradiction exists on 
the same issues due to lack of req uired supporting documents in the 
Bid(i.e. document is deficient or missing), or due to some statement at 
other place of the Bid(i.e. reconfirmation of confirmation) or vise versa, 
clarifications may be sought by OIL. In all the above situations, the Bidder 
will not be allowed to change the basic structure of the Bid already 
submitted by them and no change in the price or substance of the Bid 
shall be sought, offered or permitted. 
 
21.7 Prior to the detailed evaluation, Company will determine the substantia l 
responsiveness of each bid to the requirement of the Bid Documents. For 
purpose of these paragraphs, a substantially responsive bid is one, which 
conforms to all the terms and conditions of the Bid Document without 
material deviations or reservation. A m aterial deviation or reservation is 
one which affects in any substantial way the scope, quality, or 
performance of work, or which limits in any substantial way, in-consistent 

--- PAGE 18 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 18 of 190 
 
way with the Bid Documents, the Company‟s right or the bidder‟s 
obligations under the contract, and the rectification of which deviation or 
reservation would affect unfairly the competitive position of other bidders 
presenting substantial responsive bids. The Company's determination of 
Bid's responsiveness is to be based on the content s of the Bid itself 
without recourse to extrinsic evidence. 
 
21.8 A Bid determined as not substantially responsive will be rejected by the 
Company and may not subsequently be made responsive by the Bidder by 
correction of the non-conformity. 
 
21.9 The Comp any may waive minor informality or nonconformity or 
irregularity in a Bid, which does not constitute a material deviation, 
provided such waiver, does not prejudice or affect the relative ranking of 
any Bidder. 
 
22.0 OPENING OF PRICED BIDS: 
22.1 Company will open the Priced Bids of the technically qualified Bidders on 
a specific date in presence of representatives of the qualified bidders. The 
technically qualified Bidders will be intimated about the Priced Bid 
Opening Date & Time in advance.  In case of any unscheduled holiday or 
Bandh on the Priced Bid Opening Date, the Bids will be opened on the 
next working day. 
 
22.2 The Priced bids of the unsuccessful bidders which remain unopened with 
OIL, may be returned to the concerned bidders on request only after 
receipt of Performance Security from the successful bidders after issue of 
Letter of Award (LOA) by OIL.  
 
22.3 The Company will examine the Price quoted by Bidders to determine 
whether they are complete, any computational errors have been made, the 
documents have been properly signed, and the bids are generally in order. 
 
22.4 Arithmetical errors will be rectified on the following basis. If there is a 
discrepancy between the unit price and the total price (that is obtained by 
multiplying the unit price and quantity) the unit price shall prevail and 
the total price shall be corrected accordingly. If there is a discrepancy 
between words, and figures, the amount in words will prevail. If any 
Bidder does not accept the correction of the errors, their Bid will be  
rejected. 
 
23.0 CONVERSION TO SINGLE CURRENCY : While evaluating the bids, the 
closing rate of exchange declared by State Bank of India  on the day prior 
to price bid opening will be taken into account for conversion of foreign 
currency into Indian Rupees. Where the time lag between the opening of 
the price bids and final decision exceeds three months, the rate of 
exchange declared by Stat e Bank of India on the date prior to the date of 
final decision will be adopted for conversion. 

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 19 of 190 
 
 
24.0 EVALUATION AND COMPARISON OF BIDS : The Company will evaluate 
and compare the bids as per BID REJECTION CRITERIA (BRC) / BID 
EVALUATION CRITERIA (BEC), PART-2 of the Bid Documents. 
 
24.1 DISCOUNTS / REBATES: Unconditional discounts/rebates, if any, given 
in the bid will be considered for evaluation. 
24.2  Post bid or conditional discounts/rebates offered by any bidder shall not 
be considered for evaluatio n of bids. However, if the lowest bidder 
happens to be the final acceptable bidder for award of contract, and if 
they have offered any discounts/rebates, the contract shall be awarded 
after taking into account such discounts/rebates. 
 
24.3   LOADING OF FOR EIGN EXCHANGE : There would be no loading of 
foreign exchange for deciding the inter-se-ranking of domestic bidders. 
 
24.4   EXCHANGE RATE RISK: Since Indian bidders are now permitted to quote 
in any currency and also receive payments in that currency, Company will 
not be compensating for any exchange rate fluctuations in respect of the 
services. 
 
24.5 REPATRIATION OF RUPEE COST : In respect of for eign parties rupee 
payments made on the basis of the accepted rupee component of their bid, 
would not be repatriable by them. A condition to this effect would be 
incorporated by the Company in the contract. 
 
25.0   CONTACTING THE COMPANY: 
25.1  Except as o therwise provided in Clause 21.0 above, no Bidder shall 
contact Company on any matter relating to its bid, from the time of the 
bid opening to the time the Contract is awarded except as required by 
Company vide sub-clause 21.7. 
 
25.2 An effort by a Bidder to influence the Company in the Company's bid 
evaluation, bid comparison or Contract award decisions may result in the 
rejection of their bid. 
 
D.      AWARD OF CONTRACT 
26.0 AWARD CRITERIA : The Company will award the Contract to the 
successful Bidder whos e bid has been determined to be substantially 
responsive and has been determined as the lowest evaluated bid, provided 
further that the Bidder is determined to be qualified to perform the 
Contract satisfactorily. 
 
27.0   COMPANY'S RIGHT TO ACCEPT OR REJECT  ANY BID : Company 
reserves the right to accept or reject any or all bids and to annul the 
bidding process and reject all bids, at any time prior to award of contract, 
without thereby incurring any liability to the affected bidder, or bidders or 

--- PAGE 20 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 20 of 190 
 
any obligation to inform the affected bidder of the grounds for Company‟s 
action.  
      
28.0   NOTIFICATION OF AWARD: 
28.1  Prior to the expiry of the period of bid validity or extended validity, 
Company will notify the successful Bidder in writing by registered letter or 
by fax or E -mail (to be confirmed in writing by registered / couriered 
letter) that its Bid has been accepted. 
28.2  The notification of award will constitute the formation of the Contract. 
  
28.3  Upon the successful Bidder's furnishing of Performance Security pursuant 
to Clause 29.0 below, the Company will promptly notify each un -
successful Bidder and will discharge their Bid Security, pursuant to 
Clause 11.0 hereinabove. 
 
29.0   PERFORMANCE SECURITY:  
29.1 Within 2(two) weeks of receipt of noti fication of award from the Company, 
the successful Bidder shall furnish to Company the Performance Security 
for an amount specified in the Forwarding Letter ( and Letter of Award 
(LOA) issued by Company to Contractor awarding the contract) as per 
Proforma-F or in any other format acceptable to the Company and must 
be in the form of Bank Guarantee (BG) or an irrevocable Letter of Credit 
(L/C) from any of the following Banks: 
 
i) Any Nationalised / Scheduled Bank in India   OR 
ii) Any Indian branch of a Foreign Bank       OR 
iii) Any reputed foreign Bank having correspondent Bank in India 
 
The Performance Security shall be denominated in the currency of the 
contract or in equivalent US Dollars converted at the B.C. Selling rate of 
State Bank of India  on the date of issue of LOA (Letter of Award). Bank 
Guarantees issued by Banks in India should be on non -judicial stamp 
paper of requisite value, as per Indian Stamp Act, purchased in the name 
of the Banker. 
 
29.2  The Performance Security specified above  must be valid for 12(Twelve) 
months ( covering the warranty period) plus 3 months to lodge claim, if 
any, beyond the contract period  to cover the warranty obligations 
indicated in clause 6.0 of Section -I hereof for Project work and 6 Months  
beyond the O&M contract period for Operation & Maintenance job/work. 
The Performance Security will be discharged by Company not later than 
30 days following its expiry. In the event of any extension of the Contract 
period, Bank Guarantee should be extended by Contractor by the period 
equivalent to the extended period.  
 
29.3 The Performance Security shall be payable to Company as compensation 
for any loss resulting from Contractor‟s failure to fulfill its obligations 
under the Contract. 

--- PAGE 21 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 21 of 190 
 
29.4 The Performance Security will not accrue any interest during its period of 
validity or extended validity. 
 
29.5  Failure of the successful Bidder to comply with the requirements of clause 
29.0 and/or 30.0 shall constitute sufficient grounds for annulment of the 
award and forfeiture of the Bid Security or Performance Security. In such 
an eventuality, the party shall be debarred for a period of 2(two) years 
from the date of default. 
 
29.6 Performance Security towards the Operation & Maintenance of the Plant 
shall be submitted prior to the  commencement of O&M. This PBG should 
be 7.5% of the Annual Contract Cost of O&M and should be valid through 
the O&M contract period plus 6(six) months. 
 
30.0   SIGNING OF CONTRACT:  
30.1 At the same time as the Company notifies the successful Bidder that its 
Bid has been accepted, the Company will either call the successful Bidder 
for signing of the agreement or send the Contract Form provided in the 
Bid Documents, along with the General & Special Conditions of Contract, 
Technical Specifications, Schedule of Rates incorporating all agreements 
agreed between the two parties. 
 
30.2 Within 30 days of issue of LOA, the successful Bidder shall sign and date 
the contract and return it to the Company. Till the contract is signed, the 
LOA issued to the successful bidder shall remain binding amongst the two 
parties.  
 
30.3 In the event of f ailure on the part of the successful Bidder to sign the 
contract within the period specified above or any other time period 
specified by Company, OIL reserves the right to terminate the LOA issued 
to the successful Bidder and invoke the Bid Security or the  Performance 
Security if submitted by the successful Bidder. The party shall also be 
debarred for a period of 2(two) years from the date of default. 
 
31.0 FURNISHING FRAUDULENT INFORMATION/DOCUMENTS: 
 If it is found that a bidder/contractor has furnished f raudulent 
information / documents, the Bid Security/Performance Security shall be 
forfeited and the party shall be debarred for a period of 3(three) years  
from the date of detection of such fraudulent act besides the legal action. 
 
32.0   CREDIT FACILITY : Bidders should indicate clearly in the Bid about 
availability of any credit facility inclusive of Government to Government 
credits indicating the applicable terms and conditions of such credit. 
 
33.0  ADVANCE PAYMENT:  
33.1 Request for advance payment shall not be normally considered. However, 
depending on the merit and at the discretion of the Company, advance 
against mobilisation charge may be given at an interest rate of 1% above 

--- PAGE 22 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 22 of 190 
 
the prevailing Bank rate (CC rate) of SBI f rom the date of payment of the 
advance till recovery/refund. 
 
33.2  Advance payment agreed to by the Company shall be paid only against 
submission of an acceptable bank guarantee whose value should be 
equivalent to the amount of advance plus the amount of interest covering 
the period of advance. Bank guarantee shall be valid for 6 months beyond 
the contract period and the same may be invoked in the event of 
Contractor‟s failure to fulfil their obligations as per terms and conditions 
of the Contract. 
 
33.3 In the event of any extension to the contract period, Contractor shall have 
to enhance the value of the bank guarantee to cover the interest for the 
extended period and also to extend the validity of bank guarantee 
accordingly. 
 
34.0  INTEGRITY PACT: 
34.1 OIL shall be entering into an Integrity Pact with the Bidders as per format 
enclosed vide Annexure-A of the Bid Document. The Integrity Pact has 
been duly signed digitally by OIL‟s competent signatory and uploaded in 
the OIL‟s e-portal. The Integrity Pact shall be returned by the bidder (along 
with the technical Bid) duly signed by the same signatory who signed the 
Bid i.e. who is duly authorized to sign the Bid. Any Bid not accompanied 
by the Integrity Pact Proforma duly signed by the bidder shall be reject ed 
straightway. Uploading the Integrity Pact in the OIL‟s E -portal with digital 
signature will be construed that all pages of the Integrity Pact has been 
signed by the bidder‟s authorized signatory who has signed the bid. 
 
34.2 OIL has appointed Shri N. Gopalaswami, IAS ( Retd), Ex -CEC and            
Shri R. C. Agarwal, IPS (Retd) as Independent Monitors (IEMs) for a period 
of 3(three) years to oversee implementation of Integrity Pact in OIL . 
Bidders may contact the Independent Monitors for any matter relating to 
the IFB at the following addresses: 
 
a. Shri N. Gopalaswami, IAS(Retd), Ex -CEC, Phone No. : 91 -44-2834-
2444(Res), 91-9600144444(Cell) ; E-mail : gopalaswamin@gmail.com 
 
b. Shri R. C. Agarwal, IPS(Retd), Phone No. : 91 -11-22752749(Res), 
91-9810787089(Cell) ; E-mail : rcagarwal@rediffmail.com 
  
35.0  LOCAL CONDITIONS: 
It is imperative for each Bidder to be fully inform ed themselves of all 
Indian as well as local conditions, factors and legislation which may have 
any effect on the execution of the work covered under the Bid ding 
Document. The bidders shall be deemed , prior to submitting their bids to 
have satisfied themselves of all the aspects cover ing the nature of the 
work as stipulated in the Bidding Document and obtain for  themselves all 
necessary information as to the risks, contingencies and all other 

--- PAGE 23 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 23 of 190 
 
circumstances, which may influence or affect the various obligations 
under the Contract. 
 
No request will be considered for clarifications from the Company (OIL) 
regarding such conditions, factors and legislation. It is understood and 
agreed that such conditions, factors and legislation have been properly 
investigated and considered by the Bidders  while submitting the Bids. 
Failure to do so shall not relieve the Bidders from responsibility to 
estimate properly the cost of performing the work within the provided 
timeframe. Company (OIL) will assume no responsibility for any 
understandings or represe ntations concerning conditions made by any of 
their officers prior to award of the Contract. Company (OIL) shall not 
permit any Changes to the time schedule of the Contract or any financial 
adjustments arising from the Bidder's lack of knowledge and its ef fect on 
the cost of execution of the Contract. 
 
36.0 SPECIFICATIONS:  
Before submission of Bids, Bidders are requested to make themselves fully 
conversant with all Conditions of the Bid Document and other relevant 
information related to the works/services to be executed under the 
contract. 
 
 
END OF PART - 1 
 
&&&& 
  

--- PAGE 24 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 24 of 190 
 
PART – 2 
 
BID REJECTION CRITERIA (BRC)/BID EVALUATION CRITERIA (BEC) 
 
I)    BID REJECTION CRITERIA (BRC) : The bid shall conform generally to 
the specifications and terms and conditions given in this bid document.  
Bids shall be rejected in case the services offered do not conform to 
required parameters stipulated in the technical specifications.  
Notwithstanding the general conformity of the bids to the stipulated 
specifications, the following re quirements will have to be particularly 
met by the Bidders without which the same will be considered as non -
responsive and rejected. 
 
A.  TECHNICAL CRITERIA: 
  Bidders must meet the following criteria: 
 
1.0 DESIGN CRITERIA : The following minimum design criteria should be 
satisfied by the offered model of the Generating Sets : 
 
(i) PRIME MOVERS : The prime movers of the Generating sets shall be, 
four stroke, spark-ignited, naturally aspirated or turbo -charged, vertical 
inline or V-type, water cooled Natural Gas Engines rated for continuous 
power and overload power in accordance with IS 3046/BS 5514/IS:1000 
or equivalent Internationally approved/accepted standards, and capable 
of developing BHP sufficient to deliver 7 MW  power c ontinuously at the 
installation site conditions when operated at 1500 RPM (maximum)and 
equipped with all engine -mounted parasitic loads. However the design 
configuration of the Power Plant should be as per Para 2.0 below. 
 
(ii) ALTERNATORS: The Alternators must  be brushless type with 
generation 3 phase voltage 11KV at 50 Hz with necessary 
synchronization facility & control panel. 
 
2.0 DESIGN PARAMETERS OF THE POWER PLANT : The following design 
parameters of the Power Plant is to be satisfied: 
 
i) Net Power output :   6.3 MW ( Minimum) 
ii) Minimum Electrical efficiency at unity pf should be 38% as per            
IS 3046/1 Standard. 
iii) Maximum quantity of Natural Gas requirement at ambient 
conditions for 7MW gross power should be 35000 SCMD. 
iv) Minimum load throw off Capacity should be 60% of full load. 
v) Implementation Schedule of the Power Plant should be 3 (Three) 
Months from the date of issuance of LOA. 
 
Note: The bid should be accompanied by Technical Literature from the 
Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) in support of Para  1.0 &             
Para 2.0 above except for Para 2.0 (v) above. 

--- PAGE 25 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 25 of 190 
 
 
3.0 The Model of the Generating Sets shall have satisfactory service record 
for power generation application in Central/State PSUs or Government 
Organizations or Public/Private Limited Company and shall have logged 
minimum 3000 hours (cumulative) or six months of operation from its 
date of commissioning prior to the bid closing date of this tender. 
 
3.1 The fuel for the Generating Set shall be natural gas and it shall be 
running with natural gas from well head. 
 
B.  FINANCIAL CRITERIA: 
1.0 The bidder shall have an average Annual financial turnover of minimum 
Rs. 23.42 Crores or USD 3.86 Million during the last 3(three) years ending 
31.03.13(for Accounting Year April-March) and 31.12.12(for calendar Year 
Accounting year).  
 
C. BIDDER’s EXPERIENCE CRITERIA: The bidder should meet the 
following Experience Criteria: 
 
1.0 The bidder shall be an OEM for the Engine or Alternator or the complete 
Generating Set. 
                                                                OR 
The bidder shall be an authorized dealer of OEM for the Engine / 
Alternator or the complete Generating Set 
                                                                 OR 
The bidder shall be an OEM approved assembler of the Complete 
Generating Set or its authorized representative. 
                                                                 OR 
The bidder shall have experien ce of executing Turnkey Contracts for 
commissioning of Gas Engine Driven Power Plant. 
 
 
Note: For each of the cases as per para 1.0 above, bidder shall enclose 
the following documentary evidence must be submitted along with the 
bid:  
 
(i) Duly Notarized Ar ticle of Association, Memorandum of Association & 
Certificate of Incorporation is to be submitted by the bidder in support of 
OEM of the Engine or Alternator or Assembler of Generating Set. 
 
(ii) In case the bidder is the OEM Authorized Assembler of the Co mplete 
Generating Set or Authorized dealer of the Engine/Alternator/Complete 
Generating Set, authority letter from the OEM is to be submitted in 
support of the Bid. The authority letter should be valid for the entire 
duration of the Contract till successfu l completion. This is in addition to 
the documentary proof in support of the OEM of the Engine or alternator 
or Complete Generating set. 
 

--- PAGE 26 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 26 of 190 
 
2.0 The Bidder should have the experience of having successfully completed 
minimum one no. of work of supply, installation  and commissioning of 
Natural Gas Engine driven Power Plant of capacity 5 MW or above in 
Central or State PSUs, Government Organizations or any other 
Public/Private Limited Company and subsequent Operation & 
Maintenance of the Plant atleast for the next co nsecutive Three (3) Years 
during the last 10(ten) years prior to the Bid Closing Date of the Tender. 
 
Note:  
The bidder must submit the following as documentary evidence (Duly 
Notorised) in support of Para 2.0 above: 
 
(a) For OIL Contracts, copy of “Certificate of Compliance (COC)”/ 
“Certificate of Payment (COP)”/ “Service Entry Sheet (SES)s” of 
successfully completed job must be submitted as per para No 2.0)  
above. It may be clearly noted that simply mentioning of OIL  Contract 
Number/Work Order number will not be accepted. 
 
(b) For other contracts, Contract Completion certificate from the end 
user clearly showing the following: 
• Gross value of the job done. 
• Nature of Job done 
• Contract Period. 
 Contract No. 
 
D. Joint Venture/Joint Venture Partner/Technical Collaborator  or 
CONSORTIUM Criteria: 
In case the bidder does not fulfill any of the above conditions then the 
bidder can bid on strength of his Joint Venture/Joint Venture 
Partner/Technical Collaborator or as a  consortium subjected to the 
following conditions: 
 
1.0 Joint Venture/Joint Venture Partner/Technical Collaborator :                
In case, the bidder is an Indian Company/Indian joint venture 
Company, either the Indian Company/Indian Joint Venture Company or 
its technical collaborator/joint venture partner should meet the Bidder‟s 
Experience criteria as per Para C above. However, the Indian Company/ 
Indian joint venture Company must meet the Financial Criteria as per 
Para B above. 
 
Indian bidders quoting based on technical collaboration/joint venture, 
shall submit a duly notorised Memorandum of 
Understanding/Agreement with their techn ical collaborator/joint 
venture partner clearly indicating their roles under the scope of work 
which shall also be addressed to OIL and shall remain valid and binding 
for the contract period under this tender. 
 

--- PAGE 27 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 27 of 190 
 
2.0 Bids from Consortium : In case, the bidder  is consortium of companies, 
the following requirement should be satisfied by the bidder: 
 
(i)  Any one of the consortium members individually shall have to meet the 
Financial Criteria as per Para B.0 above and the same or any other 
consortium member indiv idually should meet the Experience Criteria as 
per Para C above. 
 
(ii) Consortium bids shall be submitted with a Memorandum of 
Understanding between the consortium members duly signed by the 
authorized Executives of the consortium members clearly defining the 
role/scope of work of each partner/member, binding the members jointly 
and severally to the responsibility for discharging all obligations under the 
contract and identifying the Leader of Consortium. Unconditional 
acceptance of full responsibility by t he Leader of the Consortium for 
executing the „Scope of Work‟ of this tender document till the end of the 
Contract Period under this tender, shall be submitted along with the 
technical bid. The Memorandum of Understanding between the 
consortium members should be duly Notorised by Notary person. 
 
(iii) Only the Leader of the consortium shall buy the bid document, submit 
bid and sign the Contract Agreement (in the event of award of Contract) 
on behalf of the Consortium. 
 
(iv) The Bid Security shall be in the name of the Leader of the consortium 
on behalf of consortium with specific reference to consortium bid and 
name & address of consortium members. Similarly the Performance 
Security shall be in the name of the Leader on behalf of the consortium. 
 
3.0 Any  party  who  is  extending  technical  support  by  way  of  entering  
into technical collaboration with another par ty, shall not be allo wed to 
submit an independent  Bid  against  the  tender  and  such  bids  shall  
be  rejected straightway. Furth er, all  bids  from  parties  with  technical  
collaboration  support from the same Principal will be rejected. 
 
E. UNDERTAKING CRITERIA : The following Undertaking duly notorised 
by Notary should be submitted along with the bid: 
  
1.0 For deployment of minimum manpower as per Annexure, for Operation 
& Maintenance of plant for the entire duration of the Contract Period 
under this tender, in the event the Contract is awarded to the bidder 
against this tender. 
 
2.0 Undertaking and confirmation from OEM of the equipments that th e 
equipments to be supplied are not going to become obsolete for the next 
10 years and provisioning of spares will be continued till completion of 
the Contract period against this tender. 
 

--- PAGE 28 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 28 of 190 
 
3.0 Undertaking to the following effects : 
 
In case the bidder is an OEM of Engine or its authorized dealer, 
Alternator shall be purchased from the OEM of Alternator or its 
authorized dealer and vice versa. And to the effect that the offered model 
of the equipments shall be deployed in the Power Pla nt in the event the 
Contract against this tender is awarded to the bidder. 
                                                               OR 
In case the bidder is an OEM approved assembler of the Complete 
Generating set, the Engine and the Alternator shall be purchased from 
respective OEM or their authorized dealers. And to the effect that the 
offered model of the equipments shall be deployed i n the Power Plant in 
the event the Contract against this tender is awarded to the bidder. 
                                                               OR 
In case the bidder is having experience in executing turn key contracts 
for commissioning of Gas Eng ine Driven Power Plant, then the bidder 
should purchase the Engine and the Alternator from respective OEM or 
their authorized dealers or the complete gen -set from OEM of the 
Complete Gen-Set or their authorized assembler. And to the effect that 
the offered model of the equipments shall be deployed in the Power Plant 
in the event the Contract against this tender is awarded to the bidder. 
 
F. COMMERCIAL – BID SUBMISSION 
1.0 Bids shall be submitted under single stage two Bid system i.e. Technical 
Bid and Priced Bi d separately in the OIL‟s e -Tender portal. The Technical 
Bid is to be uploaded as per Scope of Work & Technical Specification of 
the tender in “Technical RFx Response” Tab and Priced Bid as per 
Proforma-B uploaded in the “Notes & Attachments” Tab.  Bids shall be 
rejected outright if the prices are indicated in the technical  bids. Bids not 
conforming to this two bid system shall be rejected outright.   
 
2.0 Bidder shall offer firm prices.  Price quoted by the successful bidder must 
remain firm during the execu tion of the contract and not subject to 
variation on any account. 
 
3.0 Bids with shorter validity will be rejected as being non-responsive. 
 
4.0 Bid Security in Original shall be furnished as a part of the Technical Bid 
and shall reach OIL‟s Head -Contract‟s office  at Duliajan on or before 
12.45 Hrs (IST) on the bid closing date .  A scanned copy of the bid 
security shall however be uploaded in OIL‟s E -Procurement portal along 
with the Technical Bid. The amount of Bid Security shall be as specified in 
the Forwarding Letter of the Bid Document.  Bid without proper & valid 
Bid Security will be rejected.  
 
5.0 The Integrity Pact must be uploaded in OIL‟s E -Procurement portal along 
with the Technical Bid digitally signed by the same signatory who digitally 

--- PAGE 29 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 29 of 190 
 
signed the Bid i.e. who is duly authorized to sign the Bid. Bids without the 
Integrity Pact digitally signed by the bidder shall be rejected straightway. 
 
6.0 Physical Bids, if any received from the bidders, shall not be considered 
and will be rejected. 
 
7.0 Bids submitted after the Bid Closing Date and Time will be rejected. 
 
8.0 Bids received through the e -procurement portal shall only be accepted. 
Bids received in any other form shall not be accepted. 
 
9.0 The bid documents are non-transferable. Bid can only be submitted in the 
name of the bidder in whose name the User ID and Password have been 
issued. Unsolicited bids will not be considered and will be straightway 
rejected. 
 
10.0 Bids shall be typed or written in indelible ink and shall be digitally signed 
by the bidder or his authorized representative. 
 
11.0 Any physical documents wherever called for, submitted by bidders shall 
contain no interlineations, white fluid erasures or overwriting except as 
necessary to correct errors made by the Bidder, in which case such 
correction shall be initialed by the person or persons who has/have 
digitally signed the Bid.  
 
12.0 Any Bid containing false statement will be rejected. 
 
13.0  Bidders must quote clearly and strictly in accordance with the price 
schedule outlined in “ Price Bid Forma t” of Bid Document, otherwise the 
Bid will be summarily rejected. 
 
14.0 Against this tender, either the Indian agent on behalf of the 
Principal/OEM or Principal/OEM itself can bid but both cannot bid 
simultaneously for the same item/product.  
 
14.1 If an a gent submits bid on behalf of the Principal/OEM, the same agent 
shall not submit a bid on behalf of another Principal/OEM in the same 
tender for the same item/product. 
 
15.0 Bidder must accept and comply with the following clauses as given in the 
Bid Document in toto failing which bid will be rejected –  
 
i) Performance Guarantee Clause 
ii) Force Majeure Clause 
iii) Tax Liabilities Clause 
iv) Arbitration Clause 
(iv)      Acceptance of Jurisdiction and Applicable Law 
(v)      Liquidated damage and penalty clause 

--- PAGE 30 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 30 of 190 
 
(vi)      Safety & Labour Law 
(vii) Termination Clause 
(viii) Integrity Pact 
 
G. GENERAL 
1.0 In case bidder takes exception to any clause  of bid document not covered 
under BEC/BRC, then the Company has the discretion  to load or reject 
the offer on account of such exception if the bidder does not 
withdraw/modify the deviation when/as advised by Company. The loading 
so done by the  Company will be final and binding . Company reserves the 
right to ask the bidder for clarification on any clause referred to in the NIT 
except under the BEC/BRC.  
 
2.0 To ascertain the substantial responsiveness of the Bid the Company 
clauses covered under BRC also and such clarifications fulfilling the BRC 
clauses in toto  must be received on or before the deadline given by the 
Company, failing which the offer will be summarily rejected. 
 
3.0 If any of the clauses in the BRC contradict with other clauses of the Bid 
Document elsewhere, then the clauses in the BRC shall prevail. 
 
II.  BID EVALUATION CRITERIA (BEC): 
The bids conforming to the technical specifications, terms and 
conditions stipulated in the bidding document and considered to be 
responsive after subjecting to Bid Rejection Criteria will be considered 
for further evaluation as per the Bid Evaluation Criteria given below: 
 
1.0  If there is any discrepancy between the unit price and the total price, the 
unit price will prevail and the total price shall be corrected. Similarly, if 
there is any discrepancy between word s and figure, the amounts in 
words shall prevail and will be adopted for evaluation. 
 
2.0  For conversion of foreign currency into Indian currency for evaluation of 
Bids, B.C. selling (Market) rate declared by State Bank of India, one day 
prior to the date  of priced bid opening shall be considered. However, if 
the time lag between the opening of the bids and final decision exceeds 
3(three) months, then B.C. Selling(Market) rate of exchange declared by 
SBI on the date prior to the date of final decision shal l be adopted for 
conversion and evaluation. 
 
3.0  The bidders must quote their charges/ rates in the manner as called for 
vide "Schedule of Rates" under Section - IV and the summarized price 
schedule format vide enclosed Proforma -B. 
 
4.0  The quantities shown against each item in the "Price Bid Format (i.e. in 
Proforma-B)" shall be considered for the purpose of Bid Evaluation. It is, 
however, to be clearly understood that the assumptions made in respect 
of the number of days/parameters for various operations are only for the 

--- PAGE 31 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 31 of 190 
 
purpose of evaluation of the bid and the bidder will be paid on the basis 
of the actual number of days/parameter, as the case may be. 
 
5.0  To ascertain the inter-se-ranking, the comparison of the responsive bids 
will be made subject to loading for any deviation. The Inter-se-ranking of 
the bidders “Ranking Position” shall be based on their Technical Bid and 
Commercial Bid. The Ranking shall be evaluated as per the following 
formulae: 
 
Ranking Position = 40% of the Total Commercial Point scored +    
60% of the Total Technical Points Scored. 
   
The bidder with the highest Ranking Points i.e. highest points scored 
during evaluation as per the above formulae shall be awarded the 
Contract. 
 
Note:  
(i) The Total Commercial Points Scored and The Total Technical Point 
scored shall be worked out respectively as per Para 6.0 and 7.0 below. 
 
(ii)  In case of identical Ranking Points are scored by more than 01(one) 
bidder, the bid with the LOWEST COMMERCIAL  QUOTE shall be 
selected.  
 
(iii) In case of identical Ranking Points are scored by more than 01(one) 
bidder and their Commercial Quote are also identical then the bidder 
offering lowest Implementation Schedule of the plant shall be selected.   
 
(iv)  In case of identical Ranking Points are scored  by more than 01(one) 
bidder and their Commercial Quote are also identical and their offered 
Implementation Schedule of the plant is also identical then the Bidder 
offering the highest thermal efficiency of the plant shall be selected.   
 
(v)   In case of identical Ranking Points are scored by more than 01(one) 
bidder with identical Commercial Quote, their offered  Implementation 
Schedule of the plant is also identical and have offered identical ( 
highest) thermal efficiency of the plant then the bidder sha ll be selected 
through the draw of lots. 
 
6.0)  SCHEDULE OF RATES: The bidder is to quote their rates as per the 
schedule below: 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 32 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 32 of 190 
 
A.0 TOTAL CAPITAL COST: The bidder is to quote for the total Capital Cost 
as per the schedule below: 
 
 
 
Sl 
No  
Description of work   (inclusive of all 
that are covered item wise in scope of 
work under terms of reference & 
technical specification the tender 
document )  
 
 
Quantity 
Total Price 
 
 
Rs in 
figure 
 
 
Rs in 
words 
01 Civil & Structural Work 
 
LSM   
02 Natural Gas Engine Driven generating set LSM   
03 Electrical Items & Illumination LSM   
04 Piping work    
 
 
05 
Misc Mechanical Equipment ( e. g 
Compressor , Gas dryer/ booster plant , gas 
purification plant etc) 
LSM   
06 Firefighting system LSM   
07 Black start Generating Set LSM   
08 Construction of water & effluent disposal 
system 
LSM   
09 Fitting of Lifting facilities LSM   
10 Implementation of CDM project LSM   
11 Painting of entire plant LSM   
 TOTAL CAPITAL COST : A    
 
Bidder to provide Cost breakup for Item No 02 and Item No 03 in their bid. The 
break-up is to be shown separately. 
 
B.0 TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTAINANCE COST: The bidder is to quote 
for the Operation & Maintenance cost (O&M Cost) of the Power Plant as 
per below: 
Sl No ITEM CURRENCY COST 
Operation & Maintenance Cost Of the 
plant 
 
  
1. For The First Year   
2 For The Second Year   
3 For The Third Year   
4 For The Fourth Year   
5 For The Fifth Year   
6 For The Sixth Year   
7 For The Seventh Year   
8 For The Eight Year   
9 For The Ninth Year   
10 For The Tenth Year   
 
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTAINANCE 
COST : B 
  

--- PAGE 33 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 33 of 190 
 
TOTAL COMMERCIAL QUOTE = Total Capital Cost “A” + Total 
Operational Cost “B”. 
 
Points shall be awarded to the bidders based on their “Total Commercial 
Quote” as per the following order: 
 
 Points shall be awarded on a scale of 125 to 250. 
 The bid with the lowest Commercial quote shall be awarded 250 Points. 
The bid with the Highest Commercial Quote shall be awarded 125 
Points. The intermittent bidder shall be awarded proportionate points 
counted upto two decimal points.  
  Out of the Total Commercial Point scored by the bidder. 
 40% of the Total Commercial Points scored by the bidder shall be taken 
for evaluation of RANKING POSITION. 
 
Note: The followings should be taken note by the bidders while quoting for 
this tender: 
 
 The bid price should be inclusive of all taxes & levies on “FOR Kumchai 
basis”. 
 There is an Arunachal Pradesh entry tax applicable on all the Goods &  
Services entering Arunachal Pradesh. Bidder to take note of this and 
forward their quote inclusive of the entry tax.  
 The operation & Maintenance Cost is to be inclusive of all types of 
spares. The bidder is to forward the list of tentative spares to be 
consumed for operation & maintenance of the plant on per year basis. 
 
BEC- TECHNICAL:  
7.0 Based on the Technical Bid submitted by the bidder, the Total Technical 
Point to be awarded shall be worked out as follows: 
 
      
Sl No       ITEM Points Scored Points Scoring Scale 
1. Net Power out 
put  
Min-6.3 MW            
[ 25 Marks] 
 The bidder offering highest Net 
power Output shall be awarded 
50 Points. 
The bidder offering lowest net 
Power Output shall be awarded 
25 Points. 
The intermittent bidder shall be 
awarded proportionate points 
counted upto two decimal 
points. 
2. Electrical 
efficiency at 
unity pf  
Min – 38 %                        
[ 25 Marks]  
 The bidder offering most 
efficient Gen-set Units shall be 
awarded 50 Points. 
The bidder offering lowest 
efficient Gen-set Units shall be 

--- PAGE 34 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 34 of 190 
 
awarded 25 Points. 
The intermittent bidder shall be 
awarded proportionate points 
counted upto two decimal 
points 
3. Gas 
requirement at 
ambient 
conditions for 
7MW gross 
power  
= Max 
35,000SCMD   
[ 25 Marks]       
 The bidder offering Lowest Gas 
Requirement shall be awarded 
50 Points. 
The bidder offering Highest Gas 
Requirement shall be awarded 
25 Points. 
The intermittent bidder shall be 
awarded proportionate points 
counted upto two decimal 
points 
4.  load throw off 
Capacity 
 The bidder offering highest  load 
throw off Capacity shall be 
awarded 50 Points. 
The bidder offering lowest load 
throw off Capacity shall be 
awarded 25 Points. 
The intermittent bidder shall be 
awarded proportionate points 
counted upto two decimal 
points. 
5. Implementation 
Schedule 
[ 
Implementation 
period of 3 
months from 
the date of LOI 
25 marks]  
 
 The bidder offering Lowest 
Implementation Schedule shall 
be awarded 50 Points. 
The bidder offering Highest 
Implementation Schedule shall 
be awarded 25 Points. 
The intermittent bidder shall be 
awarded proportionate points 
counted upto two decimal 
points 
                                                        Full score = 250  
 
Total Technical Points Scored = Sum of the Points scored against   
Sl No( 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5)above. 
 
Note: 60 % of the Total Technical Points Scored shall be taken for 
evaluation of RANKING POSITION. 
 
Ranking Position = 40% of the Total Commercial Point scored + 
60% of the Total Technical Points Scored. 
 
 

--- PAGE 35 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 35 of 190 
 
8.0 Granting of Price Preference to Domestic Bidders (applicable to ICB 
tenders only) 
Domestic bidders would be entitled to a price preference up to ten 
percent (10%) over the lowest acceptable (evaluated) Foreign bid subject 
to value addition. For ensuring value addition and eligibility for price 
preference, domestic bidders should provide all evidence necessary to 
prove that they meet the following criteria: 
(a) Be registered within India 
(b) Have majority ownership by Nationals of India 
(c) Not sub-contract more than 50% of the works measured in terms 
of value, to Foreign contractors.  
 
For meeting the criteria at (c) above, domestic bidders should obtain a 
certificate in original from practicing Statutory Auditor engaged by them 
for auditing their annual accounts, which could establish that not more 
than 50% of the works measured in term s of value has been sub -
contracted to Foreign contractors. The original certificate indicating 
various sub -contracting details in percentage terms as well as in 
absolute value should be submitted in the priced bid. However, a copy of 
the Statutory Auditor‟ s certificate indicating various sub -contracting 
details in percentage terms only and with price details should be 
submitted in the un-priced bid.  
 
Consortium between domestic(Indian) and foreign firms led by Indian 
firm shall also be eligible for the pri ce preference provided they fulfill the 
conditions of price preference given for domestic bidder at (a), (b) & (c) 
above. 
 
However Consortium between domestic and foreign firms led by foreign 
firms shall not be eligible for price preference even though the ir domestic 
partner satisfies the conditions given for domestic bidder at (a), (b) & (c) 
above. 
 
It must be noted that above information so furnished, if at any stage 
found wrong, incorrect or misleading, will attract action as per rules/law. 
 
The bidders are requested to check the latest position on the subject on 
their own and OIL does not accept any liability whatsoever on this 
account. 
 
 
 
 
END OF PART – 2 
&&&& 

--- PAGE 36 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 36 of 190 
 
SECTION-I 
GENERAL CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT 
 
1.0  DEFINITIONS: 
1.1  In the contract, the following terms shall be interpreted as indicated: 
 
(a)  "The Contract" means agreement entered into between Company and 
Contractor, as recorded in the contract Form signed by the parties, 
including all attachments and appendices thereto and all documents 
incorporated by reference therein; 
 
(b)    "The Contract Price" means the price payable to Contractor under the 
contract for the full and proper performance of its contractual obligations; 
 
(c)   "The Work" means each and every activity required for the successful 
performance of the services described in Section II, the Terms of 
Reference. 
 
(d)   "Company" or "OIL" means Oil India Limited; 
 
(e)  "Contractor" means the Contractor performing the work under this 
Contract. 
 
(f)   "Contractor's Personnel" mean s the personnel to be provided by the 
Contractor to provide services as per the contract. 
 
 (g)   "Company's Personnel" means the personnel to be provided by OIL or 
OIL's Contractor (other than the Contractor executing the Contract). The 
Company representa tives of OIL are also included in the Company's 
personnel. 
 
2.0 EFFECTIVE DATE, MOBILISATION TIME, DATE OF COMMENCEMENT 
OF THE CONTRACT AND DURATION OF CONTRACT: 
 
2.1  EFFECTIVE DATE: The contract shall become effective as of the date 
Company notifies Contractor in writing (through Letter of Award) that it 
has been awarded the contract. This date of issue of Letter of Award (LOA) 
will be the Effective Date of Contract. 
 
2.2  MOBILISATION TIME: The mobilization shall have to be completed by the 
contractor within 15(fifteen) days from the Effective Date of the Contract. 
Mobilization shall be deemed to be completed when Contractor's personnel 
and material arrives at OIL‟s facility in Kumchai duly certified by the 
Company's authorized representative. 
 
2.3  DATE OF COMMENCEMENT OF CONTRACT : The commencement date 
of the Contract will be reckoned from the date of issue of LOA. 

--- PAGE 37 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 37 of 190 
 
             2.4 DURATION OF CONTRACT: The duration of the Contract shall be for a 
period of 3(Three) months to be reckoned from the commencement date 
of the Contract  plus commissioning period with Operability Run of 45 
days plus 10(Ten) years Operation & Maintenance of the Plant.  
 
3.0  GENERAL OBLIGATIONS OF CONTRACTOR : Contractor shall, in 
accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions of this Contract: 
 
3.1  Perform the work described in the Terms of Reference (Section II) in most 
economic and cost effective manner. 
 
3.2  Except as otherwise provided in the Terms of Reference and the special 
Conditions of the contract provide all labour as required to perform the 
work. 
 
3.3  Perform all other obligations, work and services which are required by the 
terms of this contract or  which reasonably can be implied from such 
terms as being necessary for the successful and timely completion of the 
work. 
 
3.4  Contractor shall be deemed to have satisfied himself before submitting his 
bid as to the correctness and sufficiency of its bid for the services required 
and of the rates and prices quoted, which rates and prices shall, except 
insofar as otherwise provided, cover all its obligations under the contract. 
 
3.5  Contractor shall give or provide all necessary supervision during the 
performance of the services and as long thereafter within the warranty 
period as Company may consider necessary for the proper fulfilling of 
Contractor's obligations under the contract. 
 
4.0  GENERAL OBLIGATIONS OF THE COMPANY : Company shall, in 
accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions of this contract: 
 
4.1  Pay Contractor in accordance with terms and conditions of the contract. 
 
4.2  Allow Contractor and his personnel access, subject to normal security and 
safety procedures, to all areas as req uired for orderly performance of the 
work. 
 
4.3  Perform all other obligations required of Company by the terms of the 
contract. 
 
4.4  Catering for the insurance of the assets post commissioning of the Plant 
including public liability insurance in relation thereto. 
 
5.0    PERSONNEL TO BE DEPLOYED BY CONTRACTOR 
5.1   Contractor warrants that they will provide competent, qualified and 
sufficiently experienced personnel to perform the work correctly and 

--- PAGE 38 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 38 of 190 
 
efficiently and shall ensure that such personnel observe  applicable 
Company and statutory safety requirement. Upon Company's written 
request, Contractor, entirely at their own expense, shall remove 
immediately, from assignment to the work, any personnel of the 
Contractor determined by the Company to be unsuitab le and shall 
promptly replace such personnel with personnel acceptable to the 
Company without affecting Company's work. 
 
5.2    The Contractor shall be solely responsible throughout the period of the 
contract for providing all requirements of their personnel, and of their 
Sub-contractors, if any, including but not limited to insurance, housing, 
medical services, messing, their transportation to & fro from field site(both 
air and land transportation), enroute expenses, vacation, salaries and all 
amenities, termination payment and taxes, if any, payable at no charge to 
the Company & Company shall have no responsibility or liability in  this 
regard 
 
5.3  Contractor's key personnel shall be fluent in English language (both 
writing and speaking). 
 
6.0     WARRANTY AND REMEDY OF DEFECTS 
6.1   Contractor must warrant that they shall perform the work in a first class, 
workman-like, and profes sional manner and in accordance with the 
highest degree of quality, efficiency, and with the state of the art 
technology and in conformity with all specifications, standards and 
drawings set forth or referred to in the Technical - Scope of Work 
(Section-II) and with instructions and guidance which the Company may, 
from time to time, furnish to the Contractor.  
 
6.2 Should the Company discover at any time during the tenure of the 
Contract or within the Performance Liability Period of the Contract  that 
the work ca rried out by the contractor does not conform to  and perform 
as per terms and conditions of the Contract, Contractor shall after 
receipt of notice from Company, promptly perform all corrective work 
required to make the services conform to the Warranty. Such  corrective 
work shall be performed entirely at Contractor's own expenses.  If such 
corrective work is not performed within a reasonable time, the Company, 
at its option, may have such remedial work carried out by others and 
charge the cost thereof to Cont ractor, which the Contractor must pay 
promptly. In case Contractor fails to perform remedial work, the 
performance security shall be forfeited. 
 
6.3 All Goods or Materials shall be supplied strictly in accordance with the 
specifications, drawings, data sheets,  other attachments and conditions 
stated in the Contracts. 
 
6.4 The Contractor guarantees that the Goods or Materials supplied under 
the Contract are new, unused, of the most recent or current models and 

--- PAGE 39 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 39 of 190 
 
incorporate all recent improvements in design and materi als unless 
provided otherwise in the Contract. The Contractor further warrants that 
the goods supplied under this Contract shall have no defect arising from 
design, materials or workmanship. 
 
6.5 No deviation from such specifications or alterations or of these  
conditions shall be made without agreement with the COMPANY in 
writing, which must be obtained before any work against the order is 
commenced. All materials supplied by the CONTRACTOR pursuant to 
the Contract (irrespective of whether engineering, design d ata or other 
information has been furnished, reviewed or approved by Company) are 
guaranteed to be of the best quality of their respective kinds, (unless 
otherwise specifically authorized in writing by Company) and shall be 
free from faulty design, workman ship and materials, and to be of 
sufficient size and capacity and of proper materials so as to fulfill in all 
respects operating conditions, if any, specified in the Contract. 
 
6.6 This Guarantee shall remain valid for a period of 12 (twelve) months 
from the date of putting the plant into operation i.e. DATE OF 
COMPLETION OF THE PROJECT. If any trouble or defect, originating 
with the design, material, workmanship or operating characteristics of 
any materials, arises at any time prior to expir y of guarantee period, the 
CONTRACTOR is notified thereof, CONTRACTOR shall, at his own 
expense and as promptly as possible, make such alterations, repairs and 
replacements as may necessary to permit the material to functions in 
accordance with the specifications and to fulfill the foregoing guarantees. 
 
6.7 The Company may, at its option, remove such defective materials, at 
CONTRACTOR‟S expense in which event CONTRACTOR shall, without 
cost to Company and as promptly as possible, furnish and install proper 
materials. Repaired or replacement materials shall be similarly 
guaranteed by the CONTRACTOR for a period of no less than 12 (twelve) 
months from the date of replacement/ repair. 
 
6.8 In the event that the materials supplied do not meet the specifications 
and/ or not in accordance with the drawings data sheets or the terms of 
Contract and rectification is required in site, COMPANY shall notify the 
CONTRACTOR giving full details of differences. The CONTRACTOR shall 
attend the site within 3 (three) days of receipt of  such notice to meet and 
agree with representatives of COMPANY, the action required to correct 
the deficiency. Should the CONTRACTOR fail to attend meeting at site 
within the time specified above, COMPANY shall immediately rectify the 
work/ materials and C ONTRACTOR shall reimburse COMPANY all cost 
and expenses incurred in connection with such trouble or defect. In case 
the Contractor fails to perform remedial work, the Performance Bank 
Guarantee shall be invoked. 
 

--- PAGE 40 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 40 of 190 
 
7.0 CONFIDENTIALITY, USE OF CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND 
INFORMATION: 
7.1  Contractor shall not, without Company's prior written consent, disclose 
the contract, or any provision thereof, or any specification, plan, drawing 
pattern, sample or information furnished by or on behalf of Company in 
connection therewith, to any person other than a person employed by 
Contractor in the performance of the contract. Disclosure to any such 
employed person shall be made in confidence and shall extend only so far, 
as may be necessary for purposes of such performance. 
 
7.2    Contractor shall not, without Company's prior written consent, make use 
of any document or information except for purposes of performing the 
contract. 
 
7.3   Any document supplied to the Contractor in relation to the contract other 
than the Co ntract itself remain the property of Company and shall be 
returned (in all copies) to Company on completion of Contractor's 
performance under the Contract if so required by Company. All 
information obtained by Contractor in the conduct of operations and th e 
information/maps provided to the Contractor shall be considered 
confidential and shall not be divulged by Contractor or its employees to 
anyone other than the Company's personnel. This obligation of Contractor 
shall be in force even after the termination of the contract. 
 
8.0   TAXES: 
8.1  Tax levied as per the provisions of Indian Income Tax Act and any other 
enactment/rules on income derived/payments received under this 
contract will be on Contractor's account. 
 
8.2  Contractor shall be responsible for payment of personal taxes, if any, for 
all the personnel deployed in India. 
 
8.3  The Contractor shall furnish to the Company, if and when called upon to 
do so, relevant statement of accounts or any other information pertaining 
to work done under this cont ract for submitting the same to the Tax 
authorities, on specific request from them. Contractor shall be responsible 
for preparing and filing the return of income etc. within the prescribed 
time limit to the appropriate authority. 
 
8.4   Prior to start of o perations under the contract, the Contractor shall 
furnish the Company with the necessary documents, as asked for by the 
Company and/ or any other information pertaining to the contract, which 
may be required to be submitted to the Income Tax authorities a t the time 
of obtaining "No Objection Certificate" for releasing payments to the 
Contractor. 
 
8.5   Tax clearance certificate for personnel and corporate taxes shall be 
obtained by the Contractor from the appropriate Indian Tax authorities 

--- PAGE 41 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 41 of 190 
 
and furnished to Company within 6 months of the expiry of the tenure of 
the contract or such extended time as the Company may allow in this 
regard. 
 
8.6  Corporate income tax will be deducted at source from the invoice at the 
specified rate of income tax as per the provisions of Indian Income Tax Act 
as may be in force from time to time. 
 
8.7    Corporate and   personnel taxes on Contractor   shall   be the liability of 
the Contractor and the Company shall not assume any responsibility on 
this account. 
 
8.8    All local taxes, levies and duties, sales tax, octroi, etc. on purchases and 
sales made by Contractor shall be borne by the Contractor. 
 
8.9 The Contractor agrees to and does hereby accept full and exclusive 
liability at his own cost for the payment of any and all taxes, duties licence 
fee and other such levies etc. as are payable to government, local or 
statutory authority as are now in force and as are payable by Contractor, 
his agents, Sub -Contractor‟s and their employees etc. for performance of 
work under thi s Contract. The Contractor shall be deemed to have been 
fully informed with respect to all such liabilities and considered the same 
in his bid, and the Contract shall not be varied in any way on this 
account. 
 
8.10 For imported supplies of goods, Contractor at their cost shall arrange the 
clearance of all equipment, spare parts, consumable, etc. from customs 
and port authorities in India. The responsibility for clearance will rest with 
the Contractor. Any demurrage in this process will be at Contractor's cost. 
 
8.11   Service Tax: The price excludes Services Tax and the service tax as 
applicable shall be to the Company account. 
 
9.0     INSURANCE: 
9.1   The Contractor shall arrange insurance to cover all risks in respect of their 
personnel, material s and equipment belonging to the Contractor or its 
subcontractor during the currency of the contract. 
 
9.2    Contractor shall at all time during the currency of the contract provide, 
pay for and maintain the following insurance amongst others: 
 
a)  Workmen compensation insurance as required by the laws of the 
country of origin of the employee. 
b)  Employer's Liability Insurance as required by law in the country of 
origin of employee. 
c)  General Public Liability Insurance covering liabilities includi ng 
contractual liability for bodily injury, including death of persons, and 
liabilities for damage of property. This insurance must cover all 

--- PAGE 42 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 42 of 190 
 
operations of Contractor required to fulfill the provisions under this 
contract. 
d)  Contractor's equipment used f or execution of the work hereunder 
shall have an insurance cover with a suitable limit (as per 
international standards). 
e)  Automobile Public Liability Insurance covering owned, non -owned 
and hired automobiles used in the performance of the work 
hereunder, with bodily injury limits and property damage limits as 
governed by Indian Insurance regulations. 
f)  Public Liability Insurance as required under Public Liability 
Insurance Act 1991. 
 
9.3  Contractor shall obtain additional insurance or revise the limits of existing 
insurance as per Company's request in which case additional cost shall be 
to Contractor's account. 
 
9.4   Any deductible set forth in any of the above insurance shall be borne by 
Contractor. 
 
9.5   Contractor shall furnish to Company prior to  commencement date, 
certificates of all its insurance policies covering the risks mentioned above. 
 
9.6    If any of the above policies expire or are cancelled during the term of this 
contract and Contractor fails for any reason to renew such policies, then 
the Company will renew/replace same and charge the cost thereof to 
Contractor. Should there be a lapse in any insurance required to be 
carried out by the Contractor for any reason whatsoever, loss/damage 
claims resulting therefrom shall be to the sole account of Contractor. 
 
9.7    Contractor shall require all of his sub -Contractor to provide such of the 
foregoing insurance coverage as Contractor is obliged to provide under 
this Contract and inform the Company about the coverage prior to the 
commencement of agreements with its sub-Contractors. 
 
9.8    All insurance taken out by Contractor or his sub -Contractor shall be 
endorsed to provide that the underwriters waive their rights of recourse on 
the Company. 
 
9.9 i) All goods/equipment to be supplied unde r this contract shall be under 
Contractor‟s custody until such goods/equipment are installed and 
commissioned on turnkey basis. The Contractor shall at his own expense, 
secure and maintain insurance covering the full value of all such goods/ 
equipment for the period up to commissioning of the Plant. 
 
ii) Such insurance shall cover any loss or damage of supplied 
goods/equipment during transit from Contractor‟s source of despatch to 
project sites, storage at various sites, erection, installation and 
commissioning of such goods/equipment till such time the entire Plant 

--- PAGE 43 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 43 of 190 
 
is commissioned. The beneficiary of all such insurance policies shall be 
OIL. Unless insurance document in this regard are furnished to the 
Company no payment will be made for such supplies. 
  
10.0  CHANGES: 
10.1  During the performance of the work, Company may make a change in the 
work within the general scope of this Contract including, but not limited 
to, changes in methodology, and minor additions to or deletions from the 
work to be performed. Contractor shall perform the work as changed. 
Changes of this nature will be affected by written order (Change Order) by 
the Company. 
 
10.2  If any change result in an increase in compensation due to Contractor or 
in a credit due to Company, Con tractor shall submit to Company an 
estimate of the amount of such compensation or credit in a form 
prescribed by Company. Such estimates shall be based on the rates 
shown in the Schedule of Rates (Section IV). Upon review of Contractor's 
estimate, Contractor shall establish and set forth in the Change Order the 
amount of the compensation or credit for the change or a basis for 
determining a reasonable compensation or credit for the change. If 
Contractor disagrees with compensation or credit set forth in the  Change 
Order, Contractor shall nevertheless perform the work as changed, and 
the parties will resolve the dispute in accordance with Clause 13 
hereunder. Contractor's performance of the work as changed will not 
prejudice Contractor's request for additiona l compensation for work 
performed under the Change Order. 
 
11.0  FORCE MAJEURE: 
11.1  In the event of either party being rendered unable by `Force Majeure' to 
perform any obligation required to be performed by them under the 
contract, the relative obligati on of the party affected by such `Force 
Majeure' will stand suspended as provided herein. The word `Force 
Majeure' as employed herein shall mean acts of God, war, revolt, agitation, 
strikes, riot, fire, flood, sabotage, civil commotion, road barricade (but  not 
due to interference of employment problem of the Contractor) and any 
other cause, whether of kind herein enumerated or otherwise which are 
not within the control of the party to the contract and which renders 
performance of the contract by the said party impossible. 
 
11.2 Upon occurrence of such cause and upon its termination, the party 
alleging that it has been rendered unable as aforesaid thereby, shall notify 
the other party in writing within Seventy Two (72) hours of the alleged 
beginning and endin g thereof, giving full particulars and satisfactory 
evidence in support of its claim. 
 
11.3  Should „force majeure‟ condition as stated above occurs and should the 
same be notified within seventy two (72) hours after its occurrence the 
„force majeure rate‟  shall apply for the first fifteen days. Either party will 

--- PAGE 44 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 44 of 190 
 
have the right to terminate the contract if such `force majeure' condition 
continues beyond fifteen (15) days with prior written notice. Should either 
party decide not to terminate the contract eve n under such condition, no 
payment would apply after expiry of fifteen ( 15) days period unless 
otherwise agreed to. Time for performance of the relative obligation 
suspended by the 'Force Majeure' shall then stand extended by the period 
for which such cause lasts. 
 
The above clause (i.e. Clause No. 11.0) with all its sub -clauses shall be 
referred to as Force Majeure Clause of this tender document. 
12.0   TERMINATION: 
12.1 TERMINATION ON EXPIRY OF THE TERMS (DURATION ): This Contract 
shall be deemed to have been completed on successful commissioning of 
the plant and completion of its O&M for 10 years thereafter. 
 
12.2  TERMINATION ON ACCOUNT OF FORCE MAJEURE : Either party shall 
have the right to terminate this Contract on  account of Force Majeure as 
set forth in Article 11.0 above. 
 
12.3  TERMINATION ON ACCOUNT OF INSOLVENCY : In the event that the 
Contractor at any time during the term of this Contract, becomes 
insolvent or makes a voluntary assignment of its assets for th e benefit of 
creditors or is adjudged bankrupt, then the Company shall, by a notice in 
writing have the right to terminate this Contract and all the Contractor's 
rights and privileges hereunder, shall stand terminated forthwith. 
 
12.4 TERMINATION FOR UNSAT ISFACTORY PERFORMANCE : If the 
Company considers that, the performance of the Contractor is 
unsatisfactory, or not up to the expected standard, the Company shall 
notify the Contractor in writing and specify in details the cause of the 
dissatisfaction. The C ompany shall have the option to terminate this 
Contract by giving 15 days notice in writing to the Contractor, if 
Contractor fails to comply with the requisitions contained in the said 
written notice issued by the Company, 
 
12.5   TERMINATION DUE TO CHANGE  OF OWNERSHIP & ASSIGNMENT : In 
case the Contractor's rights and /or obligations under this Contract 
and/or the Contractor's rights, title and interest  to the equipment/ 
material, are transferred or assigned without the Company's consent, the  
Company may at its absolute discretion, terminate this Contract. 
 
12.6 If at any time during the term of this Contract, breakdown of Contractor's 
equipment results in Contractors being unable to perform their obligations 
hereunder for a period of 15 successive days, Company at its option, may 
terminate this Contract in its entirely without any further right or 
obligation on the part of the Company, except for the payment of money 
then due. No notice shall be served by the Company under the condition 
stated above. 

--- PAGE 45 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 45 of 190 
 
 
12.7  Notwithstanding any provisions herein to the contrary, the Contract may 
be terminated at any time by the company on giving 15 (fifteen) days 
written notice to the Contractor due to any other reason not covered 
under the above clause from 12.1 to 12.6 an d in the event of such 
termination the Company shall not be liable to pay any cost or damage to 
the Contractor except for payment of services as per the Contract upto the 
date of termination. 
 
12.8 TERMINATION FOR DEFAULT :   
The Company may, without prejudice to any other remedy for breach of 
Contract, by written notice of default sent to the Contractor, terminate 
the Contract in whole or in part:    
 
 A) If the Contractor fails to deliver any or all of the GOODS within the 
period(s) specified in the Contract; or  
 
 B) If the Contractor fails to perform any of their obligations(s) under 
the Contract, and   
 
C) If the Contractor, in either of the above circumstances does not 
rectify his failure within a period of 30 (Thirty) days (or such 
longer period as the Company may authorise in writing) after 
receipt of the default notice from the Company. 
 
12.9  CONSEQUENCES OF TERMINATION :  In all cases of termination herein 
set forth, the relative obligations of the parties to the Contract shall be 
limited to the period up to the date of termination. Notwithstanding the 
termination of this Contract, the parties shall continue to be bound by the 
provisions of this Contract that reasonably require some action or 
forbearance after such termination. 
 
12.10 Upon termination of this Contract, Contractor shall return to Company all 
of Company's items, which are at the time in Contractor's possession. 
 
12.11 In the event of  termination of  contract,  Company will issue Notice  of 
termination of the contract  with date  or  event after  which  the  contract 
will be terminated. The contract shall then stand terminated and the 
Contractor shall demobilize their personnel & materials. 
 
12.12 Notwithstanding any provisions herein to the contrary, the Contract may 
be terminated at any time by the Company on giving 15 (Fifteen) days 
written notice to the Contractor due to any other reason not covered 
under the above Sub -Clause from 12.1 to 12.8 and in the event of such 
termination the Company shall not be liable to pay any cost or damage to 
the Contractor except for payment for Work done as per this Contract up 
to the date of termination. 
 

--- PAGE 46 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 46 of 190 
 
13.0   SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES AND ARBITRATION: 
13.1   All disputes or differences whatsoever arising between the parties out of or 
relating to the construction, meaning and operation or effect of this 
contract or the breach thereof shall be settled by arbitration in accordance 
with the Rules of Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. The venue 
of arbitration will be Duliajan, Assam. The award made in pursuance 
thereof shall be binding on the parties. 
 
14.0  NOTICES: 
14.1  Any notice given by one party to other, pursuant to this Contract shall be 
sent in writing or by telex or Fax and confirmed in writing to the 
applicable address specified below: 
 
Company 
a)   For contractual matters        b)  For technical matters 
  Head (Contracts)                 General Manager (FE&Tpt) 
 OIL INDIA LIMITED               OIL INDIA LIMITED 
     PO DULIAJAN - 786602             PO Duliajan - 786602, 
     ASSAM, INDIA                      Assam, India 
Fax No. 91-374-2803549         Fax No. 91-374-2803294      
Email: contracts@oilindia.in          Email: FieldEngineering@oilindia.in 
 
c)   Contractor 
__________________________ 
__________________________ 
Fax No. : 
 
14.2  A notice shall be effective when delivered or on the notice's effective date, 
whichever is later. 
 
15.0   SUBCONTRACTING/ASSIGNMENT: 
15.1  Contractor shall not subcontract, transfer or assign the contract, in full or 
any part under this contract, to any third party (ies). Except for the main 
services under this contract, Contractor may sub -contract the petty 
support services subject to Company's prior approval. However, 
Contractor shall be fully responsible for complete execution and 
performance of the services under the Contract. 
 
16.0  MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS: 
16.1  Contractor shall give notices and pay all fees at their own cost required to 
be given or paid by any National or State Statute, Ordinance, or other Law 
or any regulation, or bye -law of any local or other duly constituted 
authority as may be in force from time  to time in India, in relation to the 
performance of the services and by the rules & regulations of all public 
bodies and companies whose property or rights are affected or may be 
affected in any way by the services. 
 

--- PAGE 47 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 47 of 190 
 
16.2  Contractor shall conform in all respects with the provisions of any Statute, 
Ordinance of Law as aforesaid and the regulations or bye -law of any local 
or other duly constituted authority which may be applicable to the 
services and with such rules and regulation public bodies and Companie s 
as aforesaid and shall keep Company indemnified against all penalties 
and liability of every kind for breach of any such Statute, Ordinance or 
Law, regulation or bye-law. 
 
16.3  During the tenure of the Contract, Contractor shall keep the site where 
the services are being performed reasonably free from all unnecessary 
obstruction and shall store or dispose of any equipment and surplus 
materials and clear away and remove from the site any wreckage, rubbish 
or temporary works no longer required. On the comp letion of the services, 
Contractor shall clear away and remove from the site any surplus 
materials, rubbish or temporary works of every kind and leave the whole 
of the site clean and in workmanlike condition to the satisfaction of the 
Company. 
 
16.4  Key personnel cannot be changed during the tenure of the Contract except 
due to sickness/death/resignation of the personnel in which case the 
replaced person should have equal experience and qualification, which 
will be again subject to approval, by the Company. 
 
16.5 All fossils, coins, articles of value or antiquity and structures and other 
remains or things of geological or archaeological interest discovered on 
the site where the services are performed, be deem to be the absolute 
property of the Company. The Contractor shall take reasonable 
precautions to prevent the personnel or any other persons from removing 
or damaging any such article or thing and shall immediately upon the 
discovery thereof and, before removal, acquaint the Company of such 
discovery any carry out, at the expense of the Company, the Company‟s 
orders as to the disposal of the same. 
17.0   LIQUIDATED DAMAGES 
17.1 LIQUIDATED DAMAGES FOR DEFAULT IN TIMELY COMPLETION: 
17.1.1 Time is the essence of this Contract. In case there is delay in completion 
of the contract as per the schedule of Completion (as per Sub -Clause 2.4 
of Section -I) due to the reasons attributable to the Contractor, the 
Contractor shall be liable to pay liquidated damages at the rate of 0.5% of 
the estimated total contract value per week or part thereof of delay subject 
to maximum of 7.5%  of the total calculated Contract Price . Liquidated 
Damages will be reckoned from the  date  after  expiry  of  the  scheduled  
completion  period  till  the  actual completion period of C ontract as 
defined in Clause 2.4 of Section -I. The Company may without prejudice to 
any other method of recovery, deduct the amount of such liquidated 
damages from any amount due to the Contractor 
 
17.1.2 The Company also reserves the right to cancel the Contract without any 
compensation whatsoever in case of failure to Complete the work within 

--- PAGE 48 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 48 of 190 
 
the stipulated period.  In  the  event  of  non -completion  of  the  jobs  as  
per  the provisions of this contrac t, the company reserves the right to 
claim back the amount already paid to the contractor. Any part/phase 
completion, barring the final phase, will be regarded as non -completion of 
the contract and loss of time & cost to the company. 
 
17.1.3 The parties ag ree that the sum specified above is not a penalty but a 
genuine pre-estimate of the loss/damage which will be suffered by OIL on 
account of delay/breach on the part of the Contractor and the said 
amount will be payable without proof of actual loss or damag e caused by 
such delay/breach and without any demur and shall not be open for any 
dispute whatsoever. 
 
18.0  PERFORMANCE SECURITY: The Contractor has to furnish to Company a 
Bank Guarantee No. _______________________dated_____________ issued by 
_______________________   for ___________ ( being 7.5 % of estimated total 
Contract Price  excluding O&M cost ) valid till ____________ towards 
performance security. The performance security shall be payable to 
Company as compensation for any loss resulting from Contractor's failure 
to fulfil their obligations under the Contract. In the event of extension of 
the Contract period, the validity of the bank guarantee shall  be suitably 
extended by the Contractor. The bank guarantee will be discharged by 
Company not later than 30 days following its expiry. 
 
18.1 Performance Security towards the Operation & Maintenance ( O&M) of the 
plant shall be submitted prior to commencement of O&M. This PBG 
should be for 7.5% of the Annual contract value for 10 years O&M and 
should be valid throughout the O&M contract period plus 6 months. 
 
18.2 INVOKATION OF PERFORMANCE BANK GUARANTEE: 
 In the event of the Contractor failing to honour any of the commitments 
entered into under the Contract and/or in respect of any amount due 
from the Contractor to the Company, the Company shall have an 
unconditional option under the guarantee to invoke the ir performance 
bank guarantee and clear the amount from Bank. 
 
19.0  ASSOCIATION OF COMPANY'S PERSONNEL:  
19.1 The Company may depute one or more than one representative (s) / 
Engineer (s) to act on its behalf for overall co -ordination and operational 
management at location. Company‟s representative shall liase with the 
Contractor and monitor progress to ensure tim ely completion of the jobs. 
Company‟s representative shall also have the authority to oversee the 
execution of jobs by the Contractor and to ensure compliance of 
provisions of the Contract. 
 
19.2 The Company‟s representatives shall have free access to all the equipment 
of the Contractor during operations as well as idle time for the purpose of 
observing / inspecting the operations performed by the Contractor in 

--- PAGE 49 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 49 of 190 
 
order to judge whether, in the Company‟s opinion, the Contractor is 
complying with the provisions of the Contract. 
 
20.0  LABOUR: The recruitment of the labour shall be met from the areas of 
operation and wages will be according to the rates prevalent at the time 
which can be obtained from the District Authorities of the area. The 
facilities to be giv en to the labourers should conform to the provisions of 
labour laws as per contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970. 
 
21.0   LIABILITY: 
21.1 Except as otherwise expressly provided, neither Company nor its servants, 
agents, nominees, Contractors, or sub-contractors shall have any liability 
or responsibility whatsoever to whomsoever for loss of or damage to the 
equipment and/or loss of or damage to the property of the Contractor 
and/or their Contractors or sub-contractors, irrespective of how such loss 
or damage is caused and even if caused by the negligence of Company 
and/or its servants, agent, nominees, assignees, contractors and sub -
Contractors. The Contractor shall protect, defend, indemnify and hold 
harmless Company from and against such loss  or damage and any suit, 
claim or expense resulting there from. 
 
21.2 Neither Company nor its servants, agents, nominees, assignees, 
Contractors, sub -contractors shall have any liability or responsibility 
whatsoever for injury to, illness, or death of any employee of the 
Contractor and/or of its Contractors or sub -contractor irrespective of how 
such injury, illness or death is caused and even if caused by the 
negligence of Company and/or its servants, agents nominees, assignees, 
Contractors and sub -contractors. Contractor shall protect, defend, 
indemnify and hold harmless Company from and against such liabilities 
and any suit, claim or expense resulting therefrom. 
 
21.3   The Contractor hereby agrees to waive its right to recourse and further 
agrees to cause  their underwriters to waive their right of subrogation 
against Company and/or its underwrites, servants, agents, nominees, 
assignees, Contractors and sub -contractors for loss or damage to the 
equipment of the Contractor and/or its sub-contractors when such loss or 
damage or liabilities arises out of or in connection with the performance of 
the contract. 
 
21.4  The Contractor hereby further agrees to waive its right of recourse and 
agrees to cause its underwriters to waive their right of subrogation against 
Company and/or its underwriters, servants, agents, nominees, assignees, 
Contractors and sub -contractors for injury to, illness or death of any 
employee of the Contractor and of its Contractors, sub -contractors and/or 
their employees when such injury, illn ess or death arises out of or in 
connection with the performance of the contract. 
 

--- PAGE 50 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 50 of 190 
 
21.5 Except as otherwise expressly provided, neither Contractor nor its 
servants, agents, nominees, Contractors or sub-contractors shall have any 
liability or responsibility  whatsoever to whomsoever for loss of or damage 
to the equipment and/or loss or damage to the property of the Company 
and/or their Contractors or sub-contractors, irrespective of how such loss 
or damage is caused and even if caused by the negligence of Co ntractor 
and/or its servants, agents, nominees, assignees, Contractors and sub -
contractors. The Company shall protect, defend, indemnify and hold 
harmless Contractor from and against such loss or damage and any suit, 
claim or expense resulting there from. 
 
21.6 Neither Contractor nor its servants, agents, nominees, assignees, 
Contractors, sub -contractors shall have any liability or responsibility 
whatsoever to whomsoever for injury or illness, or death of any employee 
of the Company and/or of its Contractor s or sub -contractors irrespective 
of how such injury, illness or death is caused and even if caused by the 
negligence of Contractor and/or its servants, agents, nominees, assignees, 
Contractors and sub -contractors. Company shall protect, defend 
indemnify and hold harmless Contractor from and against such liabilities 
and any suit, claim or expense resulting therefrom. 
 
21.7  The Company agrees to waive its right of recourse and further agrees to 
cause its underwriters to waive their right of subrogation agai nst 
Contractor and /or its underwriters, servants, agents, nominees, 
assignees, Contractors and sub -contractors for loss or damage to the 
equipment of Company and/or its contractors or sub -contractors when 
such loss or damage or liabilities arises out of o r in connection with the 
performance of the contract. 
 
21.8  The Company hereby further agrees to waive its right of recourse and 
agrees to cause it underwriters to waive their right of subrogation against 
Contractor and/or its underwriters, servants, agen ts, nominees, 
assignees, Contractors and sub -contractors for injury to, illness or death 
of any employee of the Company and of its Contractors, sub -contractors 
and/or their employees when such injury, illness or death arises out of or 
in connection with the performance of the Contract. 
 
22.0  CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGE : Except as otherwise expressly provided, 
neither party shall be liable to the other for special, indirect or 
consequential damages resulting from or arising out of the contract, 
including but witho ut limitation, to loss or profit or business 
interruptions, howsoever caused and regardless of whether such loss or 
damage was caused by the negligence (either sole or concurrent) of either 
party, its employees, agents or sub-contractors. 
 
23.0  INDEMNITY AGREEMENT: 
23.1 Except as provided hereof Contractor agrees to protect, defend, indemnify 
and hold Company harmless from and against all  claims, suits, demands 

--- PAGE 51 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 51 of 190 
 
and causes of action, liabilities, expenses, cost, liens and judgments of 
every kind and charac ter, without limit, which may arise in favour of 
Contractor's employees, agents, contractors and sub -contractors or their 
employees on account of bodily injury or death, or damage to 
personnel/properly as a result of the operations contemplated hereby, 
regardless of whether or not said claims, demands or causes of action 
arise out of the negligence or otherwise, in whole or in part or other faults. 
 
23.2 Except as provided hereof Company agrees to protect, defend, indemnify 
and hold Contractor harmless from and against all claims, suits, demands 
and causes of action, liabilities, expenses, cost, liens and judgments of 
every kind and character, without limit, which may arise in favour of 
Company's employees, agents, contractors and  sub -contractors or their 
employees on account of bodily injury or death, or damage to 
personnel/properly as a result of the operations contemplated hereby, 
regardless of whether or not said claims, demands or causes of action 
arise out of the negligence or otherwise, in whole or in part or other faults. 
 
24.0 INDEMNITY APPLICATION: The indemnities given herein above, whether 
given by Company or Contractor shall be without regard to fault or to the 
negligence of either party even though said loss, damage, liability, claim, 
demand, expense, cost or cause of action may be caused, occasioned by or 
contributed to by the negligence, either sole or concurrent of either party. 
 
25.0  WITHHOLDING: Company may withhold or nullify the whole or any part 
of the amount due to Contractor, after informing the Contractor of the 
reasons in writing, on account of subsequently discovered evidence in 
order to protect Company from loss on account of :- 
 
a)    For non-completion of jobs assigned as per Section-II. 
b)   Contractor's indebtedness arising out of execution of this Contract. 
c)    Defective work not remedied by Contractor. 
d)   Claims by sub-Contractor of Contractor or others filed or on the basis 
of reasonable evidence indicating probable filing of such claims 
against Contractor. 
e)   Failure of Contractor to pay or provide for the payment of salaries/ 
wages, contributions, unemployment compensation, taxes or 
enforced savings with-held from wages etc. 
f)  Failure of Contractor to pay the cost of removal of unnecessary 
debris, materials, tools, or machinery. 
g)    Damage to another Contractor of Company. 
h)   All claims against Contractor for damages and injuries, and/or for 
non-payment of bills etc. 
i)   Any failure by Contractor to fully reimburse Company under any of 
the indemnification provi sions of this Contract. If, during the 
progress of the work Contractor shall allow any indebtedness to 
accrue for which Company, under any circumstances in the opinion 
of Company may be primarily or contingently liable or ultimately 

--- PAGE 52 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 52 of 190 
 
responsible and Contrac tor shall, within five days after demand is 
made by Company, fail to pay and discharge such indebtedness, then 
Company may during the period for which such indebtedness shall 
remain unpaid, with -hold from the amounts due to Contractor, a 
sum equal to the amount of such unpaid indebtedness. 
 
  Withholding will also be effected on account of the following:- 
 
i)    Order issued by a Court of Law in India. 
ii)   Income-tax deductible at source according to law prevalent from time 
to time in the country. 
iii)  Any obligation of Contractor which by any law prevalent from time to 
time to be discharged by Company in  the event of Contractor's 
failure to adhere to such laws. 
iv)  Any payment due from Contractor in respect of unauthorised 
imports. 
 
When all the above  grounds for withholding payments shall be removed, 
payment shall thereafter be made for amounts so with-hold.  
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the right of Company to withhold shall be 
limited to damages, claims and failure on the part of Contractor, whic h is 
directly/indirectly related to some negligent act or omission on the part of 
Contractor. 
 
26.0   APPLICABLE LAW: 
26.1  The Contract shall be deemed to be a Contract made under, governed by 
and construed in accordance with the laws of India for the tim e being in 
force and shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of Courts situated 
in Dibrugarh/ Guwahati. 
 
26.2  The Contractor shall ensure full compliance of various Indian Laws and 
Statutory Regulations, to the extent applicable, as stated below, b ut not 
limited to, in force from time to time and obtain necessary 
permits/licenses etc. from appropriate authorities for conducting 
operations under the Contract: 
 
a)  The Mines Act 1952 - as applicable to safety and employment 
conditions 
b)   The Minimum Wages Act, 1948 
c)   The Oil Mines Regulations, 1984 
d)   The Workmen's Compensation Act, 1923 
e)   The Payment of Wages Act, 1963 
f)   The Payment of Bonus Act., 1965 
g)   The Contract Labour (Regulation & Abolition) Act, 1970 and the rules 
framed there under 
h)  The Employees Pension Scheme, 1995 

--- PAGE 53 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 53 of 190 
 
i) The Interstate Migrant Workmen Act., 1979 (Regulation of 
employment and conditions of service) 
j)   The Employees Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 
1952 
k)    The AGST Act, WB & Bihar 
l)   Service Tax Act 
m)   Customs & Excise Act & Rules 
n)    Assam, West Bengal and Bihar Entry Tax Act 
 
26.3 The Contractor shall not make Company liable to reimburse the 
Contractor to the statutory increase in the wage rates of the contract 
labour appointed b y the Contractor. Such statutory or any other 
increase in the wage rates of the contract labour shall be borne by the 
Contractor. 
 
26.4 The Contractor shall not engage labour below 18 (eighteen) years of age 
under any circumstances. 
 
27.0  RECORDS, REPORTS  AND INSPECTION : The Contractor shall, at all 
times, permit the Company and its authorised employees and 
representatives to inspect all the Work performed and to witness and 
check all the measurements and tests made in connection with the said 
work. The Co ntractor shall keep an authentic, accurate history and logs 
for inspection by the Company designated representatives and its 
authorised employees and representatives. The Contractor shall provide 
the Company designated representatives with a daily written report, on 
form prescribed by the Company showing details of operations during the 
preceding 24 hours and any other  related information requested by the 
Company whenever so requested.  
 
28.0 SUBSEQUENTLY ENACTED LAWS: Subsequent to the date of submission 
of contractor's bid, if there is a change in or enactment of any law or 
interpretation of existing law, which results in additional cost/reduction 
in cost to Contractor on account of the operation under the Contract, the 
company/Contractor shall reimburse/p ay Contractor /company for such 
additional/ reduced costs actually incurred. 
 
29.0 ROYALITY AND PATENTS: Each party shall hold harmless and indemnify 
the other from and against all claim and proceedings for or on account of 
any patent rights, design, trade  mark or other protected rights arising 
from any use of materials, equipment, processes, inventions and methods 
which have not been imposed on the attending party by the terms of the 
contract or the specifications or drawings forming part thereof. 
 
30.0  WAIVER:  Any delay in exercising and any omission to exercise any right, 
power or remedy exercisable by the Company under this contract shall not 
impair such right, power or remedy nor shall any waiver by the Company 
of any breach by the Contractor of any p rovision of this contract prevent 

--- PAGE 54 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 54 of 190 
 
the subsequent enforcement of that provision by the Company or be 
deemed a waiver by the Company of any subsequent breach by the 
Contractor. 
 
31.0 PAYMENT & INVOICING PROCEDURE: 
31.1  The Company shall pay to the Contractor, during the term of the Contract, 
the amount due from time to time calculated according to the rates of 
price schedule and in accordance with other provisions hereof. No other 
payments shall be due from the Company unless specifically provided f or 
in this Contract. All payments will be made in accordance with the terms 
hereinafter described. 
 
31.2   All payments due by the Company to the Contractor shall be made at the 
Company‟s designated Bank. All Bank charges will be on Contractor‟s 
account. 
 
31.3   Payment of any invoices shall not prejudice the right of the  Company to 
question the validity of any charges therein, provided the Company within 
one year after the date of payment shall make and deliver to the 
Contractor written notice of objection  to any item or items the validity of 
which the Company questions. 
 
31.4 The Contractor will submit six sets of all invoices duly certified by 
Engineer-In-Charge along with duly filled up activity completion sheet to 
OIL, Duliajan  for processing of payment. One set of all invoices with 
measurement sheet to be submitted to Engineer-In-Charge for his record.  
 
31.5 Invoices shall be raised by the Contractor as per the Payment Schedule 
prescribed in this document. 
 
31.6   The Company shall within 20 (Twenty) days of receipt of the invoice notify 
the Contractor of any item under dispute, specifying the reasons thereof, 
in which event, payment of the disputed amount may be withheld until 
settlement of the dispute, but payment shall be ma de of any undisputed 
portion within 30 (Thirty) days from the date of receipt of the invoices at 
OIL, Duliajan. This will not prejudice the Company‟s right to question the 
validity of the payment at a later date. No interest shall be payable by the 
Company on any delayed / disputed amount. 
 
31.7   The acceptance by the Contractor of part payment on any billing not paid 
on or before the due date shall not deemed to be a waiver of the 
Contractor‟s rights in respect of any other billing, the payment of which 
may then or thereafter be due. 
 
31.8  The Contractor shall maintain complete and correct records of all 
information on which the Contractor‟s invoices are based up to 2 (two) 
years from the date of last invoice. Such records shall be required for 

--- PAGE 55 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 55 of 190 
 
making ap propriate adjustments or payments by either party in case of 
subsequent audit query /objection.  
 
31.9  Any audit conducted by the Company of the Contractor‟s records, as 
provided herein, shall be limited to the Company‟s verification (i) of the 
accuracy of all charges made by the Contractor to the Company and (ii) 
that the Contractor is otherwise in compliance with the terms and 
conditions of this Agreement. 
 
32.0 SAFETY 
32.1 The Contractor shall take all measures necessary to protect the personnel, 
work and facilities and shall observe safety rules and regulations as per 
Oil Mines Regulation & other statutory provisions.  No smoking or open 
flame shall be permitted while operating inside Industrial area or any 
stations of the Company.  
 
32.2 The Contractor shall report, as soon as possible, any evidence, which may 
indicate or is likely to lead to an abnormal or dangerous situation and 
then immediately take the first emergency control steps conforming to 
good operation practice and safety regulations. 
 
33.0 PROTECTION OF PROPERTY AND EXISTING FACILITIES: 
33.1 The Contractor shall perform each work in such a manner as will prevent 
damage to the Company‟s property and conform to and are consistent 
with, operational practices of hydrocarbon industries. Any permanent     
damage /loss to the Company‟s pipeline, assets and plants due to actions 
undertaken by the Contractor in order to provide the services envisaged 
under this Contract shall have to be remedied by the Contractor, entirely 
at their own cost. This  cost shall include and not be limited to actual 
replacement of such damaged pipeline, assets or plants, or payment of 
actual replacement cost in relation thereto as may be incurred by the 
Company. 
 
33.3 The CONTRACTOR shall take sufficient care in moving his plants, 
equipments and materials from one place to another so that they do not 
cause any damage to any person or to the property of COMPANY or any 
third party including overhead and underground cables  and in the event 
of any damage resulting to the property of COMPANY or of a third party 
during the movement of the aforesaid plant, equipment or materials, the 
cost of such damages including eventual loss of production, operation or 
services in any plant or establishment as estimated by COMPANY or 
ascertained or demanded by the third party shall be borne by the 
CONTRACTOR. 
 
34.0 PERFORMANCE OF WORK: 
34.1 The Contractor shall submit daily reports to EIC detailing progress of 
different operations as per the scope of the work. The Company, at its 
option may change the periodicity of such reports. In addition, they shall 

--- PAGE 56 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 56 of 190 
 
submit the complete job report (with all pertinent details to serve 
permanent record) within 15 (Fifteen) days from the date of completion of 
each individual job. The manner and the speed of execution and 
maintenance of the operations are to be conducted in a manner to the 
satisfaction of the Company‟s representative. Should the rate of progress 
of the operations or any part of them is at any time too slow in the opinion 
of the Company‟s representative, (to ensure completion of the operations 
within schedule) the Company‟s representative may so notify the 
Contractor in writing.  The Contractor shall reply to the written notice 
giving details of t he measures, which he proposes to take to expedite the 
operations. If no satisfactory reply to the Company‟s notice is received in 
seven days, the Company shall be free to take necessary actions as deem 
to be fit. 
 
35.0 PERMITS & CERTIFICATES: 
35.1 The Con tractor shall procure, at his expense, all necessary permits, 
certificates and licences required by virtue of all applicable laws, 
regulations, ordinances and other rules in effect at the place where any of 
the works is to be performed, and Contractor furt her agrees to hold 
COMPANY harmless from liability or penalty which might be imposed by 
reason of any asserted or established violation of such laws, regulations, 
ordinances or other rules. COMPANY will provide necessary permits for 
Contractor‟s personnel to undertake any work in India in connection with 
Contract. 
 
36.0 POLLUTION AND CONTAMINATION: 
36.1 Contractor shall be responsible for loss or damage from pollution or 
contamination arising out of or resulting from any of the Contractor‟s 
services/operation unless such pollution or contamination is for reasons 
beyond the control of the Contractor. 
 
 
END OF SECTION – I 
 
&&&& 

--- PAGE 57 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 57 of 190 
 
SECTION- II 
 
SCOPE OF WORK, TERMS OF REFERENCE AND TECHNICAL 
SPECIFICATIONS 
 
 Preamble:   Since the year 1977, OIL INDIA LIMITED is in operation at 
Kumchai Field, located at Village Innao under Diyun Circle of district 
Changlang of Arunachal Pradesh. An Early Production Set-up (EPS) is in 
operation at Kumchai. Crude Oil produced at this EPS is pumped 
through a trunk pipe-line to a terminal situated near Bordumsa Town of 
Arunachal Pradesh. From Bordumsa terminal, the crude oil is 
transferred through Bowser/tankers to Digboi Field under EPA Field of 
Oil India Limited. Major amount of Natural Gas p roduced from the 
Kumchai Field is unutilised which is approximately 35,000 SCMD. After 
Work-Over / Drilling operations, the quantity of Gas produced from 
Kumchai Field is expected to rise further. Oil India Limited intents to 
establish a Natural Gas Engine Driven power plant to generate power by 
utilizing the natural Well head gas produced from the Kumchai field.   
The proposed power plant is to be set up on GAS To WIRE Concept, 
initially to be of 5 MW capacity to be upgraded to 10 MW in near future.  
The power to be produced from the plant shall be evacuated through the 
existing distribution line of the area. The power generated is expected to 
contribute towards improvement of power scenario of the nearby region. 
 
1.0 Details of the Site/Location: 
 
i. The proposed location map of the site is attached as OIL Drawing 
No. OIL/0529. The site is in two plots, Plot A and Plot B. The 
Power plan t shall be installed at Plot B of the site. The contours of 
Plot B is shown in OIL Drawing No. OIL/9984. The broad 
requirement for installing the Power Plant at the site are as below: 
 
ii. Width of the Road between plots A & B to be maintained as 30 
feet.  
 
iii. Provision of Green Belt (Minimum 10 feet) shall be maintained 
along the periphery of the plot.  
 
iv. Earth Filling of Plot B is required.  
 
v. The boundary wall of the Plot B, where the Power plant shall be 
installed is to be constructed  The extreme boundary wall of the 
proposed Power Plant should maintain approximately 90 meter 
distance from the nearest Well head .  
 
vi.  The engine exhausts should not be towards the well site.  

--- PAGE 58 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 58 of 190 
 
         The geographical data of the site /location is as below: 
 
1.  Coordinates  :       Latitude: 96°02´55˝ 
        Longitude: 27°33´46˝ 
2.  Country  :       India 
3.  State   :       Arunachal Pradesh 
4.  District  :       Changlang 
5.  Sub Division :       Bordumsa 
6.  Circle   :       Diyun 
7.  Village  :       Innao 
8.  Time Zone  :       IST (UTC+05:30) 
9.  Temperature :       Average Summer Temperature: 27° 
                 Average Winter Temperature: 19° 
10.  Elevation  :       205 mts above mean sea level 
11.  National Highway : NH 52 , 26 KM (Namsai 2nd Mile) 
12.  Railway Station : New Tinsukia Jn, 110 KM 
13.  Airport  : Mohanbari Airport, Dibrugarh, 160 KM 
14.  Market  : Innao Market 1.5 kms. 
 
2.0    SCOPE OF SUPPLIES AND SERVICES :  This Contract is for two 
distinct and separate phases as under : 
 
Phase –I is for Supply, Installation and Commissioning of Natural Gas 
Engine Driven Power Plant to be owned by Oil India Limited. The Power 
plant is to be set up utilizing the well head Natural Gas produced at the 
Kumchai EPS. 
 
Phase II: Operation and Maintenance of the power plant set up as per 
phase i above: Operation & Maintenance of the Installed Power House for 
the next Ten (10) years. The Operation and Maintenance of the Power 
Plant shall start immediately on commissioning of the Power Plant. The 
well natural gas for the proposed plant shall be made available by the 
Owner (from the existing early production setup at Kumchai) to a point 
within the periphery of the Power plant. The Contractor should design 
the power plant to utilize the Natural Well Head gas made available by 
the owner to produce electrical power.   The Power from the said plant 
shall be evacuated by  the customer through their existing 
33kvdistribution line. The integration of the power produced from the 
power plan t to the existing 33 KV network of the consumer is within the 
scope of this Contract. The power produced from the power plant should 
also cater to the captive need of Owner at the Kumchai EPS and to the 
power plant. 
 
The broad scope of work including Phase I and Phase II is as below : 
  
i) Lump sum turnkey (LSTK) contract with Single point responsibility 
including but not limiting to  design, engineering, 
procurement, manufacture, packing, supply, transportation,  

--- PAGE 59 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 59 of 190 
 
customs clearance and insurance  Gas Engine Generator 
Portable Power plant with of Gas engine driven generating set of 
capacity in the range of 7 MW with combination of 3 x 2MW + 1 x 
1MW , complete with Gas Receiving and Conditioning station, 
Gas Booster station, electrical Switchgear, water treatment 
plant & cooling system  and all other systems/facilities required 
for  installation & commissioning,  Operation & Maintenance  of 
the said p ower plant within for ten years , including supply of 
Spares and consumable of above Gas Engine power Plant as 
described under detailed scope of work. 
 All associated civil & structural works , fire detection and 
protection, complete mechanical, electrical &  instrumentation 
jobs & testing and successful commissioning  and establishing 
the successful performance during the performance guarantee tests 
of the plant including all other incidental services required for the 
satisfactory completion and performance of  the plant as per 
applicable codes and standards shall form part of the contract.  
 
ii) The scope of the work further includes integration of the power 
plant with the  Existing Electrical Distribution Network of 
Arunachal Government which is located adjacent to  the site of 
above new Power plant. 
 
iii) The scope of work also includes Familiarization training of at least 
15 (fifteen)  Days for  Company (OIL or “Owner”)’s five  (five ) 
Engineers (3 + 2  in two batches) at OEM‟s works or at site  on the 
gas engine manufacturing plant which should include mechanical, 
electrical and  Controls & Instrumentations. For the above training 
Lodging and boarding of the Owner‟s nominated engineers shall be 
borne by owner. 
 
iv) Contractor shall obtain all necessary applicable permits an d 
clearances required for setting up and operating 7 MW power 
Plant. If the Contractor at any time becomes aware, whether as a 
result of notice from OWNER or otherwise, of any applicable 
permit not obtained by him, Contractor shall promptly give notice 
thereof to OWNER and the Contractor shall be responsible for 
obtaining such Applicable Permit. 
 
v) The Contractor shall indemnify and hold harmless OWNER and all 
OWNER indemnified parties from any damages arising from and 
out of the securing of, or failure to secure, such permits. 
 
vi) The scope includes Complete Operation of the said plant for 10 
years including but not limiting to Spares, Consumable, Minor and 
Major overhaul to achieve a plant availability of at least 95%. 
 

--- PAGE 60 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 60 of 190 
 
2.1   Battery Limit:  The broad battery limit of the Power plant shall be as 
below: 
  
 MECHANICAL  
1. GAS  
The owner shall terminate the untreated natural Gas line near the 
power plant with Isolation valve without counter flange and 
necessary treatment/conditioning including the further distribution 
shall be in the scope of the Contractor. 
 
2. WATER  
Water required for the Power plant including during Phase –I shall 
be arranged by the Contractor. The Contractor shall obtain all 
necessary permits from statutory authorities on name of the 
Owner. Further distribution inside the terminal point including but 
not limiting to drinking, industrial use & service and for firefighting 
network to be done by the Contractor. 
 
3. AIR 
 All the requirements the plant shall in the scope of the bidder. 
 
 ELECTRICAL  
The 33 KV outgoing feeders of the power plant shall be connected to the 
33 KV electrical Overhead distribution line of Department of Power, 
Arunachal Pradesh and as per Single Line diagram attached. 
 
Battery limit of electrical will be up to the cable connected to the overhead 
line. 
 
 CIVIL  
Owner shall handover the area to the Contractor. The Contractor shall 
construct all necessary Civil structures including but not limiting to 
boundary wall, earth filling, equipment foundation, roads, drains 
development of green belt., overhead water storage tank etc. 
     
2.2 SHOP ASSEMBLY AND INSPECTION 
 
2.2.1  Shop Assembly 
Shop Assembly to the largest extent feasible shall be performed by the 
Contractor to assure proper fitting of the various parts, and for checking 
the correctness of clearances and dimensions. Parts thus assembled shall 
be match -marked for reassembly at the  Site, prior to dismantling for 
shipment. A detailed description of the intended shop assemblies shall be 
submitted along with a Quality Assurance Plan. 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 61 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 61 of 190 
 
2.2.2  Inspection before Shipment 
All the Equipments shall be inspected &  certified by Company Engineers 
at Manufacturer‟s works before dispatch. The Contractor is to notify the 
Company atleast 15 days advance prior to dispatch of the materials to 
depute OIL‟s Engineers in time. 
 
No Goods shall be shipped before all tests and i nspections have been 
carried out at OEM works according to the Approved Quality Assurance 
Plan unless otherwise instructed by the Company (OIL). 
 
The acceptance of any Goods prior to shipment shall in no way relieve the 
Contractor of any of his responsibil ities for meeting all the requirements 
of the Specification and shall not prevent subsequent rejection if such 
Goods are found to be defective. 
 
3.0 CONTRACTOR'S DRAWINGS AND DATA 
a) To get the exact details of the schedule of works, progress of the 
works and the completion time, the bidder shall submit the entire 
activities of the project in MS Project-2007 (Shall include Start Date, 
Free Float and Total Float with start to finish relationship in Gantt chart 
format of each activities of the project) and above within TEN (10) days 
from the date of receipt of LOI. 
 
 b)  The Contractor shall be responsible for developing detailed 
Drawings to adopt equipment and materials to be supplied to the 
requirements indicated in the Specification and shall submit a list of such 
Drawings & a programme for submission of these Drawings & documents 
within forty-five (45) days from the date of receipt of the LOA/LOI. 
 
c)  Within a reasonable time, not exceeding forty-five (45) days from the 
date of receipt of the LOA/LOI,  the Contractor shall also provide the 
Company (OIL) with the followi ng Drawings and documents in the 
number of copies mentioned in Technical Specifications. 
d) Six (6) marked-up copies of technical particulars conforming to the 
Specifications. 
 
e) Outline drawings of major equipment together with weights and 
sufficient overall dimensions. 
 
f) Other drawings and documents as indicated in the Technical 
Specifications. 
 
 g)  The Contractor shall, prior to submitting the Drawings and 
documents, submit to the Company (OIL) two copies of the Codes and 
Standards, which shall govern the Works. 

--- PAGE 62 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 62 of 190 
 
  
4.0 MISTAKES IN DRAWINGS 
 The Contractor shall be responsible for and shall pay for any alterations 
of the Work due to any discrepancies, errors or omissions in the Drawings 
or other particulars supplied by him whether such Drawings or 
particulars have been Approved by the Engineer or not. The contractor 
has to deposit the as six sets of as build drawing after commissioning of 
the power plant. 
 
5.0 MATERIALS AND WORKMANSHIP FOR MANUFACTURER 
 All Goods to be supplied and all Works to be done by the Contractor 
under the Contract shall be manufactured and executed in the manner 
stipulated in the Specifications. 
 
 The Contractor shall use the best available materials for the Works. These 
materials shall be of recent manufacture, free from de fects and 
imperfections and unused. 
 
 The highest standards of safety  shall be adhered to during execution of 
the Works. 
 
6.0 COMPLETENESS OF EQUIPMENT 
 The equipment supplied shall be complete in all respects. The Contractor 
shall not be eligible for any extra payment in respect of such mountings, 
fittings, fixtures and accessories if required for the safe and reliable 
operation of the equipment. Parts of all similar equipment supplied shall 
be interchangeable with one another. 
 
7.0 WARRANTY 
The Contractor shall provide a Warranty in respect of the equipment and 
materials to be furnished by him the following: 
           a)  All equipment and materials shall be new and in accordance with 
the Contract Documents, all equipment shall be free from any defect due 
to faulty design, materials and/or workmanship. 
 b)  The equipment shall perform satisfactorily and the performance 
and efficiencies of the specified equipment shall not be less than the 
respective guaranteed values. 
 c)  The efficiencies, temperature rise and other performance data of all 
other equipment shall be as per the Contract Documents. 
 d)  All other works including civil, structural and architectural works 
shall be in accordance with the contract documents and free from any 
defect and omission. 
 

--- PAGE 63 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 63 of 190 
 
The Warranty has to be furnished on forms approved by the Company 
(OIL) and shall be signed by the Contractor and if needed, also by his 
sub-contractor(s). 
 
The above Warranty shall be valid for a period of twelve (12) calendar 
months commencing from th e date of taking over of the fully 
commissioned Plant . This period of the Warranty shall be called the 
"Warranty Period". During this period, the Contractor's liability shall be 
limited to the replacement of any defective parts that may develop in 
plant of  his own manufacture or those of his associate(s) and sub -
contractor(s) under the conditions provided for by the Contract under 
proper use and arising solely from faulty design, materials or 
workmanship provided always that such defective parts as are not 
repairable at site, and are not essential in the meantime in the 
commercial use of the plant, are promptly returned to the Contractor's 
works unless otherwise arranged. All such replacements of defective 
parts mentioned above shall be made free of cost at site by the 
Contractor and the return of the defective parts to the Contractor's 
works shall be the Contractor's responsibility and shall be made at his 
expense. In the case of these defective parts, which are not repairable at 
site but are essential for t he commercial operation of the equipment, the 
Contractor & the Company (OIL) shall mutually agree to a programme of 
replacement or, renewal which will minimize interruption to the max. 
extent in the operation of the equipment. 
 
The cost of any special or, general overhaul rendered necessary during 
maintenance period due to defects in the Plant or defective work carried 
out by the contractor, the same shall be borne by the Contractor. The 
Company (OIL) will, however, render such assistance in this matter as will 
expedite the same. In the case of defective parts not repairable at the Site 
but essential in the meantime for the commercial use of the Plant, the 
Contractor shall replace at the Site, free of cost of the Company (OIL) the 
said defective parts before the defective parts are removed to his works. 
 
8.0 PROGRESS REPORTS AND PHOTOGRAPHS 
The Contractor shall furnish three (3) prints each of monthly progress 
reports with photographs of the Works done in his shop. Photographs 
shall be taken when and where re quested by the Engineer. Photographs 
shall be approximately 100mm x 125mm in size including margin of 5mm 
side for fixing. Adequate number of photographs shall be submitted 
indicating various stages of manufacture. Each photograph shall contain 
the date, the name of the Contractor and the title of the view taken. 
 
 Monthly progress report shall be submitted by the Contractor. These shall 
detail the status of design, drawings, procurement of raw materials and 
manufacture of the equipment & delivery of the equipment. The Company 
(OIL) shall advise the Contractor about the nos. of copies of progress 
schedule and photographs he has to submit each month together with the 

--- PAGE 64 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 64 of 190 
 
names & addresses of persons to whom they are to be sent. The 
Contractor shall also furnish actual progress against Works schedule and 
such other information as the Company (OIL) may require to satisfy 
himself about the timely manufacture & delivery of equipment and timely 
construction & erection works to suit the commissioning date. 
 
          Progress Reports: 
The Contractor shall constantly monitor the progress of all activities in  
connection with delivery of the Supplies in accordance with the Delivery  
Schedule and the Project Schedule . Contractor shall prepare t he first 
report and  cover the period up to the end of the calendar week in which 
the Commencement Date occurred and subsequent reports shall be 
submitted weekly thereafter, each within 2 (two) Days of the last Day of 
the period to which it relates. Reporting shall continue until the Bidder 
has supplied all the Goods and / or completed all Works, which is 
known to be outstanding at the completion date stated in the Take -Over 
Certificate for the Works. Each progress report shall include 
           
 a. Photographs and detailed descriptions of progress including each 
stage of design, procurement, Manufacture, delivery at Site, 
construction, erection, testing and Commissioning. 
 
b. A description of the current status (the name of Manufacturer, 
manufacture location, percentage progres s, and the actual or 
expected dates of commencement of manufacture, Bidder‟s 
inspections, Tests and delivery) of supplies and Equipment and of 
Bidder‟s and all Major Sub -contract activities and engineering, 
manufacturing, construction and installation prog ress as 
compared with the Project Schedule (and, at the request of 
OWNER/ OWNER‟s Representative, an updated schedule). The 
Progress Report shall detail the actual status of procurement of 
raw materials and sub -contracted equipment, manufacture, 
assembly, inspection, testing and delivery of the   Plant and 
Equipment and each Item of such Plant and Equipment as against 
the Project Schedule and if any activities are behind the Delivery 
Schedule and/or Project Schedule, shall set out the explanation 
therefore, consequences thereof, and the action being taken to 
remedy the delay. 
 
c. Copies of quality assurance reports including Test results (i) from 
the manufacturing and fabrication facilities of all Sub -bidders and 
(ii) with respect to all construction activity at the Facility Site 
 
 d. Comparisons of actual and planned progress, with details of any 
aspects which may jeopardise the completion in accordance with 
the Contract, including Project Schedule and the measures/ 
catch-up plan being (or to be) adopted to ov ercome such aspects. 
It shall include a clear identification and evaluation of problems 

--- PAGE 65 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 65 of 190 
 
and deficiencies in the Services (including but not limited to, an 
evaluation of any factors which are anticipated to have a material 
effect on the quality of Work and Project Schedule). 
 
e. All other information reasonably requested by Financing Parties 
and OWNER/OWNER‟s Representative. 
  
 A brief weekly report shall be prepared by the Bidder.  The 
following shall be clearly  reflected in the report: 
a. Anticipated delays in the schedule for the month and 
action plan to overcome them 
b. Any deviation in regard to quality/process 
c. Any industrial relations problem 
             
Bidder shall submit a detailed Progress Report, in 6 (six) copies in print 
and soft copy in CD, to the Owner every Month 
 
9.0 TRAINING OF PURCHASER'S/COMPANY (OIL)'S PERSONNEL: 
The Contractor shall furnish all manuals, documentation and train 
Company (OIL)'s Engineers/Personnel free of cost for safe, successful and 
reliable operation of the plant. 
 
 The Contractor shall undertake to train free of charge, Engineering 
personnel selected and sent by the Purchaser/Company (OIL) at the 
works of the Contractor/OEM of the equipment/at site . The period and 
the nature of training for the individual personnel shal l be agreed upon 
mutually between the Contractor and the Purchaser i.e. Company (OIL). 
These engineering personnel shall be given special training in the shops, 
where the equipment will be manufactured and/or in their 
Collaborator's works and in any other plants where equipment 
manufactured by the Contractor or his Collaborator is under 
installation/operation or testing to enable those personnel to become 
familiar with the equipment being furnished by the Contractor. 
 
 All traveling expenses, including accommodation & food for the 
engineering personnel to be trained during the total period of training will 
be borne by the Company (OIL). However, the Contractor shall provide 
necessary local transport for such personnel. 
 
 The Contractor shall also train Company (OIL)'s Operation & Maintenance 
personnel at site to become proficient in operating the equipments and for 
routine maintenance/repair/replacement, lubrication, overhauling, 
adjustments, testing etc. of the plant and equipments. 
 

--- PAGE 66 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 66 of 190 
 
10.0 DETAILS OF THE SCOPE OF WORK UNDER PHASE I for SETTING 
UP OF THE POWER PLANT:  
This includes  DESIGN, Supply, Installation, Erection & 
Commissioning of an Industrial Type Natural Gas Engine Driven 
Power House at Kumchai under Diyun Circle of Arunachal Pradesh. 
This also includes all the Mechanical/Electrical & Civil Engineering 
associated works in connection with the setting up of the Power 
Plant. 
 
A.1 SUPPLY OF NATURAL GAS ENGINE DRIVEN GENERATION SETS: The 
total number of Generating sets shall be Four (04) numbers of the 
following capacity: 
 
 Three (03) Numbers of capacity 2 MW each at alternator output  
 One (01) Number of capacity 1 MW each at alternator output  
 
Note:  
(i) The capacity defined above is specified for minimum capacity only. 
The bidder may offer their Generating Sets of higher capacity but 
the total number of Generating Sets should be minimum four 
numbers, three numbers to be in operation and one number to be 
in stand-by mode at any time during  operation of the Power Plant. 
The peak power demand on the Plant shall be 5 MW initially in the 
first phase. On expansion of the Plant, the peak demand shall be 
10 MW. 
 
(ii)    The Generating Sets shall be Industrial type Natural Gas Engine 
Driven complet e with accessories, Control Panels as per 
specifications. The Generating Sets shall be rated for 11000 Volts, 
3 Phase, 50 Hz, 1500 RPM Conforming to ISO 8528 Standard and 
the rated output shall be available at the generator output 
terminals at site ambient condition.  
 
(iii)  The Generating Sets shall be the primary source of power for 
Continuous Operation.   
 
(iv)   The Generating set shall have a natural gas engine as its prime 
mover coupled to an Alternator with Control Panel housed in a 
container type enclosure. The natural Gas Engine shall be 
complete with all ancillary equipment necessary for starting and 
running of the set, including cooling systems, instrumentation, 
control and protection arrangements, spares and special tools as 
per specifications. 
 
(v)     All assemblies and sub-assemblies constituting the Generating Set, 
such as Cooling System, Air Intake System and Exhaust Outlet 

--- PAGE 67 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 67 of 190 
 
Fittings, Enclosure, Base Skid, Control Panels, shall be designed, 
built, and assembled as a complete unit. 
 
Proprietary design software such as ETAP is to be used for 
designing the system electrical parameters and the design 
data shall be forwarded to owner for their records/analysis/ 
comments. 
 
(vi)  The Alternator housing shall be one piece and mount directly to 
the en gine flywheel housing without bolted adopter. The engine 
and alternator shall be unitized through a suitable selected flexible 
coupling to transfer power from the engine to the alternator. 
 
(vii) The unitized engine, alternator and radiator (for radiator c ooled 
engine) shall be mounted on a combined under -base (Skid) of 
stress relieved fabricated steel and engine accessories shall also be 
mounted on the under base where appropriate. Adequate access 
for maintenance personnel shall be provided while mounting the 
accessories. 
 
(viii) The set is to be mounted on suitable arrangement of anti -vibration 
mounting designed to minimize the transmission of vibration but 
without resulting in excessive amplitudes of movement of any 
parts of the set. If rubber is employed  in the mounts, their design 
should incorporate means of preventing deterioration due to oil 
leakages. Flexible connection shall be provided to all exhaust, 
water, air, fuel and oil piping that leave the engine to prevent the 
transmission of vibration and the fracture of the piping due to 
movement of the set. The choice of connections and their 
installation is to be such as to give long life under normal 
operating condition of the set. 
 
(ix)  The Generating Set should be designed to satisfy the following 
design parameters: 
 
vi) Net Power output of the plant  :   6.3 MW ( Minimum) 
vii) Minimum Electrical efficiency at unity p. f. should be 38% 
viii) Maximum quantity of Natural Gas requirement at ambient 
conditions for 7MW gross power should be 35000 SCMD. 
ix) Minimum load throw  off Capacity should be 60% of full 
load. 
 
A.2)  MECHANICAL EQUIPMENTS AND ACCESSORIES:  
The scope of supply shall include the following:- 
 
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION Of PRIME MOVER OF THE 
GENERATING SET AND THE ASSECCORIES : The specification of the 

--- PAGE 68 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 68 of 190 
 
Prime Movers and their accessories shall be as per the following 
specifications:   
 
A.2.1 PRIME MOVERS :  The prime movers of the Generating sets shall be, 
four stroke, spark-ignited, naturally aspirated or turbo -charged, vertical 
inline or V-type, water cooled Natural Gas Engines rated for continuous 
power and overload power in accordance with IS 3046/BS 5514/IS:1000 
or equivalent Internationally approved/accepted standards, and capable 
of developing BHP sufficient to deliver 7 MW  power continuously  at the 
installation site conditions when operated at 1500 RPM (maximum)and 
equipped with all engine -mounted parasitic loads. The natural Gas 
Engine shall be complete with all ancillary equipment necessary for 
starting and running of the set, including cooling sys tems, 
instrumentation, control and protection arrangements, spares and 
special tools as per specifications. 
 
The Engines should be rated for Continuous Power applications. The 
engine shall meet all the performance requirements of the set under the 
specified operating conditions and shall be suitable for operation without 
knocking and able to deliver the rated power when operating on well 
head natural gas. Any deviation in the performance requirement of the 
engine or the generating set shall be within the standard tolerable limits. 
Engines shall start, achieve rated generator voltage and frequency and 
transient response to Block Loading shall conform to ISO 8528 
requirements. Single Block Load capacity shall not be less than 30% of 
its rated capacity 
 
The bid  shall be accompanied by the manufacturer's product 
catalogue/literature/brochure containing details of the engine fuel 
specification, engine rating and schematic and wiring diagrams for the 
complete power system. 
 
SPECIFICATION OF ENGINE SUB SYSTEM: 
The engine shall comprise of the following sub systems: 
 
1.  Cooling System: 
The cooling system of water cooled engine shall comprise of an 
engine mounted water pump, with either an industrial type heavy 
duty radiator with blower fan suitable for operation in ambient 
temperature of 48°C or Cooling System with Cooling Tower. 
 
2.  The engine jacket water cooling system shall be a closed circuit 
design with provision for filling, expansion, and de -aeration. The 
cooling pump shall be driven by the engine. Coolant t emperature 
shall be internally regulated to disconnect external cooling system 
until operating temperature is achieved. 
 
 

--- PAGE 69 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 69 of 190 
 
3.  Cooling by Radiator/cooling tower :  
Heat rejected to the engine jacket water shall be discharged to the 
atmosphere through a close coupled radiator or through cooling 
tower. The radiator/cooling tower shall be sized to cool the engine 
continuously while operating at full rated load and at site 
conditions of 48°C ambient. 
4.  Blower Fan:  
The radiator cooling fan shall be a blowe r type driven from the 
engine. Air shall be drawn from the engine side and exhausted 
through the radiator core with no more than 12.7MM (0.5 Inch) of 
water column external restriction in addition to core restrictions. 
 
5.  Fan and Belt guarding:  
The fan, fan drive, and fan belts shall be covered with punched 
steel mesh guarding for personnel protection. 
 
Note: Bidder shall furnish in their offer Arrangement Drawing 
showing the radiator/Cooling Tower, Blower Fan arrangement 
with the engine. The radiator, bl ower fan assembly size shall be 
such that it shall be mounted within the acoustic container. 
 
Heat Exchanger Cooling with Cooling Tower : The cooling 
capacity of the Cooling Tower shall meet the engine‟s duty rating 
and output performance. It shall be suita ble and compatible with 
all the performance requirements of the Generating set at site. 
Arrangement drawing showing the Cooling Tower with the engine 
shall be furnished in the offer. (Bidder shall furnish details of 
Cooling Tower design and specification o f the offered Cooling 
Tower). 
 
Note: The bidder shall furnish an undertaking by the engine 
manufacturer that the Cooling Tower meets the engine‟s output 
and duty rating. 
 
6.  Air Intake System: 
The air intake system shall comprise of a heavy duty -engine air 
cleaner mounted on the engine with a vacuum indicator and air 
intake manifold with dry element requiring replacement no more 
frequently than 300 hours or once each year. Level of suspended 
particulate matter in ambient air at site is 75µg/m³ (maximum.). 
 
7.  Electric Starting System (24 volt negative ground): 
The engine shall be started by 24 V starter motor(preferably of 
LUCAS TVS/DELCO REMY make) engaging with the flywheel ring 
gear and disen gaging automatically when the engine starts. The 
equipment shall include an adequately rated lead/acid battery 
(rating of 180 Ampere - Hour) together with an engine mounted 
belt driven battery charging alternator with an automatic voltage 

--- PAGE 70 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 70 of 190 
 
regulator. It shal l be suitable for heavy duty applications with a 
rating of 24 volts. The battery shall be capable of providing at least 
six starting cycles within a period of 5 minutes. Batteries shall be 
housed in a hard rubber or polypropylene case with provision for 
venting. Required cables shall be furnished and sized to satisfy 
circuit requirements. 
 
8.  Battery Charger(Mains energized): 
The Battery charger shall be an automatic mains energized battery 
charger. The charger shall have a continuous output rating 
sufficient to recharge the battery from 1.8 V/cell to a fully charged 
condition in a period of 8 hours. 
 
9.  Ignition System: 
The ignition system shall be a shielded ignition comprising 
Altronic III/V driven by the engine, Individual Ignition Coil on 
Plug, High Tension and Low Tension Wiring Harness, Transformer 
and Spark Plugs (Preferably STITT/ CHAMPION/Danso make). 
 
10.  Exhaust System: 
i.  The Exhaust System shall consists of silencer (sound 
muffler), Spark Arrestor, Flexible spool for vibration 
isolation and piping terminating with Rain Cap. Long radius 
bends where appropriate shall be used. The Exhaust System 
shall be installed with appropriate insulation and shielding. 
 
ii.  Piping should be supported and braced to prevent weight or 
thermal growth being tran sferred to the engine and flexible 
expansion fittings provided to accommodate thermal growth. 
 
11.  Gaseous Fuel System: 
The fuel system shall at minimum consist of the following items 
but not limited to these: 
 
i.  Carburetor (Preferably IMPCO make): The carburetor shall 
be a diaphragm type which includes a load screw for air -
fuel ratio adjustment, and throttle body to control the air -
fuel mixture to the engine. 
 
ii.  Governor (Preferably WOODWARD make). The governor of 
the engine shall be hydraulic/electronic type and be capable 
of fine governing of speed to Class A2 of BSS 5514/1977, 
ISO 3046/IV. It shall be an isochronous governor and shall 
control engine speed and transient load response within ISO 
8528 tolerances. It will be selected, installed, and t ested by 
OEM of the engine. Speed droop shall be externally 
adjustable from 0 (isochronous) to 4% from no load to full 

--- PAGE 71 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 71 of 190 
 
rated load. Steady state frequency regulation shall be + / - 
0.5 percent. 
 
iii.  Gas pressure regulators (preferably VANAZ/FISHER) to 
regulate gas pressure to the carburetor intake point. 
(Bidders shall note that Natural Well Head Gas at pressure 
of 4.5 kg/cm2 & 1.5 kg/cm2 shall be available at site for 
taping.) The Contractor is to make their own Gas 
conditioning & filtration plant to suit their engine design. 
 
iv.  Gas shut off valve: Fuel gas line shall close automatically 
when the engine is stopped. 
 
v.  Pressure relief valve 
 
vi.  Gas fuel filter 
 
vii.  Interconnecting gas piping 
 
Note: 
The gas conditioning & piping shall be carried out  in such a way 
as to prevent condensate carry over to engine. Fuel inlet line to the 
carburetor shall be having stainless steel flexible connection to 
take care of vibration/shock if any, in the system. 
 
12.  Lubricating System: 
The lubricating system shou ld comprise of lubricating oil pump, 
lubricating oil filter with a replaceable paper element, lubricating 
oil cooler, lubricating oil pan and crankcase breather. 
 
The lubricating oil pump shall be a positive displacement type that 
is integral with the engi ne and gear driven from the engine gear 
train. The system shall incorporate full flow filtration with bypass 
valve to continue lubrication in the event of filter clogging. 
 
The bypass valve must be integral with the engine filter base of   
receptacle. The bidder shall mention the brands of lub oil 
recommended by the engine manufacturer. 
 
13.  Instrument Panel : The engine mounted instrument panel shall 
consist of a shock -mounted formed and welded enclosure. Metric 
marked gauges to be provided. The instrument  panel shall include 
the following: 
 
a.  Lubricating Oil pressure gauge 
b.  Lubricating oil temperature gauge. 
c.  Water temperature gauge 
d.  Starting Switch 

--- PAGE 72 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 72 of 190 
 
e.  Ignition Switch 
f.  Mechanical/Digital tachometer and hour meter 
g.  Ampere meter 
h.  Intake manifold pressure and temperature 
 i.  Exhaust temperature and pressure 
 j.  Engine temperature  
 k.  Gas inlet and downstream pressures, mass flow rate, and 
control valve position 
 
14.  Engine Safety Controls : Engine mounted safety shut off/trip 
system for tripping the engine    in the event of 
 
a.  Low lubricating oil Pressure 
b.  High cooling water temperature 
c.  Engine over speed 
d.  Over-crank 
 
In addition to the above, the following protection systems are to be 
engine mounted on the engines:  
 
-  Emergency stop 
-  Low and high battery voltage warning 
-  Weak battery warning 
-  Fail to start (over crank) shutdown 
-  Fail to crank shutdown 
-  Cranking lockout 
 
15.  Other Features: 
The engine shall be equipped with air filters, fuel filters and 
pressure gauge, lubricating oil cooler, filters, and pressure gauge, 
water pump and temperature gauge, service hour meter, flywheel, 
and flywheel housing and shall include the following amongst 
others: 
 
a.  Flexible coupling / direct coupling 
b.  AVM Pad 
c.  Flywheel with housing 
d.  Lifting eyes 
e.  Coupling guard if applicable 
f.  Guards over belt drives (blower fan, water pump   drive 
pulley, timing pulley) 
g.  Standard painting 
h.  Suitable hand throttle control 
i.  Mechanical hour meter 
j.  SAE standard rotation 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 73 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 73 of 190 
 
Note: 
Provision of guards over belt drives and couplings has become 
mandatory as per recommendation of OISD (Oil Industry Safety 
Director) & DGMS (Directorate General of Mines & Safety) 
 
16.  Compliance of CPCB Norms for Emission and Noise Limits: 
The engine shall meet the latest Emission Limits and the Gen Set 
a unit shall meet the latest Emission & Noise Limits set by Central 
Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Delhi. It may kindly be noted that 
the Govt. Of India is in the process of notifying the CPCB norms 
for Noise Limit & emission for Natural Gas Engines and Natural 
Gas Engine Driven Generating Sets. As and when the norms are 
notified, the Engines and the generating Set should comply all the 
terms of the notifications. Bidders should note the same. 
 
17.  The Original Equipment Manufacturer(OEM) shall have 
authorized dealer in India for the Generating Set/Engine/ 
Alternator of generating set(engine, Radiator/Cooling Tower, 
Governor, Ignition System) offered and also shall have proven 
record of providing after sales services including maintenance 
services at least during last ten years.  The offered engine model 
shall have Shop Manual prepared by the OEM and at least three 
copies of the original printed Shop Manual shall be supplied along 
with the order. 
 
A.2.2 GENERAL NOTES ON ENGINE: 
i)  The manufacturer shall have printed literature and brochures 
describing the standard series offered (not a one of a kind 
fabrication). The manufacturer shall provide schematic and wiring 
diagrams for the complete power system. 
 
A.2.3 SPARE PARTS FOR ENGINE: 
The following shall be furnished by the supplier: 
 
a)  List of spares, consumables for the initial two years normal 
operation of the engine shall be included in the offer. (Item wise 
breakdown price of spare parts and consumables shall also be 
provided but which will not be considered for evaluation). 
 
b)  List of spares, consumables required for normal operation and 
periodic servicing of the engine. 
 
A.2.4 COMPOSITION OF FUEL GAS: 
The engine shall be capable of developing required BHP with the fuel 
composition (tentative) as given below. Chromatograph analysis of two 
samples of Natural Well Head Gas produced from Kumchai EPS is 
furnished below - 

--- PAGE 74 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 74 of 190 
 
 
 CONSTITUTION                                       Range by % VOLUME 
                                                      Sample 1                  Sample 2 
       Methane                                    87.43                      86.43 
       Ethane                                      6.57                        6.94    
       Propane                                     2.55                        2.64 
       Nitrogen                                    0.21                        0.21                 
       Carbon-dioxide                         0.15                         0.21 
       Iso-Butane                                0.69                        0.69 
       N-Butane                                  0.82                        0.81 
       Iso-Pentane                               0.38                        0.40 
       N-Pentane                                 0.27                        0.28 
       Hexane                                     0.92                        1.45 
       Gravity                                     0.6712                     0.6869 
       Gross Calorific Value( Kcal/SCUM)  10391.8                 10606 
       Net Calorific Value                      9407.4                   9607.1 
        
A.2.5 AMBIENT CONDITION: 
The generating set shall be suitable for operation and deliver its rated 
output at the following site condition: 
 
Maximum Ambient Temperature  :    48°C 
          Minimum Ambient Temperature  :    05°C     
Maximum Humidity at 21°C     :    100 % 
                       at 35°C         :    95 % 
                       at 41°C          :    70 % 
Maximum Altitude above sea level :    205 metres 
 
A.3 ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT AND ACCESSORIES  
General Principles of Design Concept of electrical System 
The design concept of the electrical system as a whole is based on the 
requirements for the safe and reliable performance of the gas engine 
generator sets and the interconnected electrical system with provision 
for easy maintenance and overhauling.  
 
The design principles and standards delineated herein are generally in 
compliance with latest IEC/IS Standards and the Code of Practice of 
CBIP guidelines issued by CEA already established in the country.  
 
Central Electricity Authority Regulations (2010), wher ever applicable, 
will be complied with.  
 
Proprietary design software such as ETAP is to be used for designing 
the system electrical parameters and the design data shall be 
forwarded to owner for their records/analysis/comments. 
 

--- PAGE 75 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 75 of 190 
 
The software shall be proc ured under the name of owner (Oil India 
Limited) and licensed accordingly. It shall be pre -loaded in a new 
laptop computer (with latest hardware and operating system) 
dedicated for this purpose. The laptop computer shall be exclusively 
used for the purpose. The same shall be handed over to owner once 
the installation and commissioning of the plant is complete. 
 
Brief Description of the Electricals of the Plant: 
Gas engine generators will develop power at 11 kV, which will be stepped 
up to 33 kV through step  up power transformers. Power will then be 
evacuated to overhead electrical power lines of Arunachal Pradesh at 33 
kV. 
 
A.3.1 Generator Control and Monitoring System Control and monitoring :  
Bidder shall offer proven micro -processor/PLC based controller for 
monitoring of operation of generator, its auxiliary systems and generator 
and engine protection systems. The monitoring system is to be controlled 
from Human Machine Interface (HMI) and P lant Information System as 
part of the total gas engine generator control system. In addition to the 
remote control and monitoring (in the main control room), local control, 
monitoring and alarms for all the auxiliary systems to be realized in the 
local pa nel mounted near these systems as per manufacturer‟s 
standard. Local panel is to be provided with all the necessary 
instrumentation and alarms. 
 
Auxiliary Power System 
Auxiliaries of the gas engines of the plant may range from medium 
capacity motors to small fractional horsepower motors.  Motors will be 
connected to either HT or LT 415V system. 
 
Continuous duty 415 V motors rated 125 KW and above will be 
controlled by breakers and Soft starters/ Star Delta Starters. Other 415 
V motors will be controlled through either DOL or star delta starters. HT 
Motors, if applicable, will be controlled through Vacuum Circuit 
Breakers and the breaker shall have in built spike guards.  
A.3.2 System Neutral Grounding 
 Generator Neutral Grounding 
Generator neutral will be  earthed through neutral grounding 
transformer and resistor. With this arrangement, the earth fault current 
will be limited to about 10 Amps. The design of the grounding system 
shall be fool proof. 
  
 11 kV System  
The step up transformers LV (11 kV) side will be delta connected.  

--- PAGE 76 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 76 of 190 
 
 33 kV System Grounding 
33 kV (HV) side of the step up transformer will be star connected and 
neutral is to be solidly earthed as per IS-3043 and the current practices.  
  
 415 V System Grounding 
415 V systems are widely distributed and 3 -phase, 4 -wire system is 
required to meet the requirement of power supply, control, indication, 
annunciation, etc. According to Central Electricity Authority Regulations 
(2010), Regulation # 41, the neutral conductor of a 3 phase, 4-wire, low 
voltage or medium voltage system will be earthed and no impedance will 
be connected in the neutral circuit (other than that required solely for 
the operation of switchgear or instruments), cut -out or circuit breaker. 
In view of the above, 415 V system of this project is envisaged as solidly 
grounded. 
 
Neutral Grounding and equipment grounding shall be separate. For 
neutral grounding of generator or transformers two nos. of separate and 
distinct ground electrodes shall be used. For equipment grounding al l 
grounding electrodes shall be bonded together. For grounding, GI pipes, 
cast iron pipes or plate earthing shall be used. Grounding practices as 
per IS: 3043 shall be followed.  
 
 
A.3.3  Major Electrical Equipment of the Plant 
 
A.3.3.1 Alternator  
The generator coupled with gas engine will have the following salient 
technical features:  
 
Type   : Synchronous generator (salient pole type, 
4 poles) 
Stator cooling  : By Air (fan cooled) 
Rotor cooling   : By Air  
Rated kVA  : 2500/1250 kVA 
Rated output  : 2000/1000 kW (3 nos./1 no.) 
Rated RPM  : 1500  
Frequency  : 50 Hz 
Duty  : Continuous 
Rated power factor : 0.80 lag Rated  
Terminal Voltage  : 11 kV (Line to line) 
Efficiency at 100% load : More than 90% 
and 0.8 p.f. 
Insulation class  : F (Temperature ri se limited to class „B‟) 
for both stator and rotor 
No. of phases            : 3, Star connection (Neutral point shall be 
available at terminal board) 
Short circuit ratio    : Not less than 0.48  

--- PAGE 77 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 77 of 190 
 
Enclosure : IP 23 
Bearing : Roller/sleeve bearing at both driven and 
non-driven end - bearings shall be 
insulated. 
Over-speed              : 20% for 2 minutes 
Overload capacity and :  110%, for max. 1 hr in every 12 hrs 
duration 
 
Generator will conform to IEC- 60034. The generator will be capable of 
withstanding short circuit level as per IEC. Generator will be suitable 
to operate continuously with a negative sequence current of 8% of the 
rated value, and I²T will not be less than 8. The generator 
withstanding capability for 3 phase short circuit at the generator 
terminals when operating at rated MVA and p.f. with 5% over voltage 
will be for a period of not less than 3 seconds. The generator will be 
capable of delivering at least three fourths of the rated output with 
one gas cooler out of service.  
 
Generator and i ts excitation system shall have capability to at least 
match the declared maximum continuous rated output of the gas 
engine. Also the generator and its excitation system shall be capable 
of continuous stable operation without any excessive temperature rise  
at the peak output of the associated gas engine. 
 
The generator winding will be star connected and all the three leads of 
the generator phase and neutral side will be brought out of the stator 
frame for connection to bus. The neutral of the generator will  be 
earthed through neutral grounding transformer and resistor to limit 
the ground fault current to 10 amps.  
 
A.3.3.2 Generator Operational Requirement: 
 
i) Voltage variation: (±) 5% of rated value at rated power and rated 
power factor. 
 
ii) Frequency variation: (-) 5 to (+) 3% of 50Hz at rated power and 
rated power factor. 
 
iii) Combined voltage and frequency variation : 5% (absolute sum) 
 
iv) Operating range MVA for short duration and time period at 
110% rated voltage shall be specified by the bidder. 
 
x) Power factor variation: 0.80 (lag) to 0.95 (lead) 
 
xi) Operation under unbalanced load: Capable of operating 
continuously with a negative sequence current of 8% of the 

--- PAGE 78 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 78 of 190 
 
rated current. The maximum current in any of the phases shall 
not exceed the rated current. 
 
vii)  Operation under unsymmetrical short: Capable of withstanding 
during any circuit transient unsymmetrical short circuit 
condition, negative sequence currentI2 expressed in per unit of 
rated circuit current for duration of „t‟ sec. such that the value 
of I22t is not less than eight (8). 
 
viii)  Voltage waveform:  The voltage waveform shall be approximately 
close to a pure sine wave under all conditions of loading within 
the tolerance limits specified in the relevant standards. The 
balanced and residual telepho ne harmonic factor (THF) is to be 
within limits specified in IEC-60034-1. 
 
ix)  Short circuit withstanding capacity:  Capable of withstanding of 
3-phase short circuit at the generator terminals when operating 
at rated MVA and power factor with 5% over volt age for a period 
of not less than 3seconds. However, the generator is to be 
subjected to withstand test as per clause no. 8.7 of IEC -60034-
1. 
 
x)  Line charging capability (MVAR): Not less than 35% of the rated 
MVA at zero power factor leading. 
 
xii)  Generator neutral earthing: Non -effectively earthed neutral 
system. Neutral to be earthed through a neutral grounding 
transformer loaded with a resistor. 
xiii)  Generator capability diagrams: Bidder to submit the capabilities 
of the generator at different p.f.  (lead and lag), clearly indicating 
the operating limits. 
 
xiv)  Impulse level and surge protection: Impulse level as per IEC -
60034, Pt.15. Surge arrestor of suitable rating to be provided for 
the surge protection of the generator winding. The surge 
capacitors are also to be included. 
 
xv)  Harmonics: Voltage and current harmonics not to exceed the 
limits as per IEEE-519. 
 
A.3.3.3  Major Components of the Generator System: 
i)    Generator excitation system 
 
ii)   Generator Protection system with switchgear,  control gear and 
protective relays 
 
iv) HMI- Part of total GG set controller (Screens for operator inputs, 
generator operational data, engine operational data, protection 

--- PAGE 79 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 79 of 190 
 
relay status, engine/generator fault and alarm/trip status, 
historical trends etc.)  
 
v) Analogue meters, indicators, hour counters, push buttons, 
selector switches 
 
v)  Synchronization panel with synchroscope with provision for 
automatic synchronization with provision for manual 
synchronization 
 
A.3.3.4 Generator Excitation System: 
General 
The generator will be provided with excitation system achieving high 
degree of operational reliability and minimum maintenance.  
 
a)  The generator shall be provided with Brushless Excitation 
System along with Automatic Voltage Regulator to meet the 
requirement specified herein. The excitation system will have fast 
response time to meet the system requirement. The excitation system 
will have automatic voltage regulator to maintain steady generator 
terminal voltage under variable load conditions and for para llel 
operation with the grid. AVR response time will be fast so that it can 
control generator during system disturbances requiring rapid changes 
in excitation to maintain the system dynamic stability margins. 
Voltage range of AVR shall be +/ - 10%. The excitation system offered 
shall be of proven design and have a satisfactory field service record 
on machines of similar size and construction incorporating the type of 
excitation. 
 
b)  The excitation system shall have matching characteristics 
suitable for satisfactory parallel operation with other generators in the 
plant. 
 
c)  The necessary inputs and interface equipment shall be provided 
with Generator Excitation and Automatic Voltage Regulator for 
hooking up with the gas engine control system and generator co ntrol 
and monitoring system. 
 
d)  Excitation system will be provided with power system stabilizer 
for achieving dynamic stability under varying operating conditions.  
 
e)  The excitation system will have in -built protective as well as 
limiting devices so a s to safeguard the generator and excitation 
system against all possible faults, troubles and mal-operation, if any.  
 
Specific Technical Requirements for Brushless Excitation System: 
The complete equipment shall be mounted on a bed plate and enclosed 
by suitable exciter cover. The system shall consist of: 

--- PAGE 80 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 80 of 190 
 
 
-  Permanent Magnet Generator (PMG) type pilot exciter. 
-  Voltage Regulator (AVR, MVR along with rectifier bridges for 
PMG) 
-  Field Circuit Breaker along with field discharge resistor 
-  Rotating rectifier bridges 
-  Brushless AC Main Exciter 
-  Complete instrumentation and protection system 
-  Inter-connecting cables between different components of the 
system 
A.3.3.5 Generator Protection Relays  
The following relays will be required for protection of the generator: (All   
relays shall be numerical) 
 Differential protection - generator winding  
 Over voltage protection  
 95-100% Stator earth fault protection  
 0-95% Stator earth fault protection  
 Reverse power protection  
 Negative phase sequence current protection  
 Field failure protection  
 Rotor earth fault protection  
 Generator overload protection  
 Generator under frequency protection  
 Generator Over frequency protection  
 Dead machine protection  
 Local breaker back-up protection  
 Backup Impedance Protection  
 Low forward Power protection  
 Pole slipping protection  
 Winding temperature protection  
 Standby stator earth fault protection  
 VT fuse failure protection  
 Interterm fault protection  
A.3.4 HT Switchgear (11 kV/33 kV): 
(Refer the single line diagram-Annexure-D.) 
HT switchgear for the plant shall be placed in a separate HT switchgear 
room/s. The 11 kV generators shall be connected to the 11 kV bus 
through 11 KV VCB type switchgears, through proper protective relays, 
protection/metering CT/PTs and protective gear such as surge diverters 
and filters. Two spare incomer VCB panels shall also be provided, one 
panel rated for an additional 2 MW generator and the other rated for an 
additional 1 MW generator. A bus coupler shall a lso be placed in the 
incomer 11 kV bus. 
 

--- PAGE 81 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 81 of 190 
 
Two nos. 11 kV outgoing breakers shall be used to feed two nos. 10 MVA 
11/33 KV step up transformers. The transformers shall be used to step 
up voltage from the generator for connection to the grid. One spare 11 
KV breaker will also be provided, with similar ratings of the breakers 
feeding the transformers. One 11 KV additional breaker shall be 
provided for feeding the station auxiliary transformer 500 KVA, 
11/0.415 KV rated. 
 
Output from the 11/33 KV step up transfo rmers will be terminated on a 
33 KV bus through 33 KV individual VCB units. There will be bus 
coupler in the 33 KV bus also. Four nos. 33 KV outgoing VCB units shall 
be provided for evacuation of power from the power plant. One spare 33 
KV outgoing VCB shall be provided as spare unit. 
 
The HT switchgear (for all levels) shall have single front, single tier, fully 
compartmentalized, metal clad construction complying with clause No. 
3.102.1 of IEC -60298, comprising of a row of free standing floor 
mounted panels. Each circuit shall have a separate vertical panel with 
distinct compartments for circuit breaker/contactor truck, cable 
termination, main busbars and auxiliary control devices. Each breaker 
shall have sufficient current carrying capacity and breaking/m aking 
capacity, according to system short circuit kVA calculation. 
 
A.3.5 Transformers 
Power Transformer (Step up transformers) 
The power transformers shall be filled with synthetic mineral oil and 
ONAN/ONAF type with suitable capacity radiator banks. The protection 
scheme for transformers shall be: 
 Differential protection for Transformer (87T) 
 HV restricted earth fault protection (64R) 
 HV backup directional over current protection (67P) 
 HV backup directional earth fault protection (67N) 
 Buchholz protection  
 Oil/winding temperature protection  
 Over fluxing protection  
 Pressure Relief Valve  
 Local Breaker Backup Protection   
All relays shall be numerical. 
 
Station Auxiliary (11/0.415 KV) Transformer  
Station auxiliary transformer shall be used to cater the station auxiliary 
loads. Though capacity is indicated as 500 kVA, this may change 
depending upon the station load requirement with sufficient provision 
for future expansion. The transformer shall be filled with synthetic 
mineral oil (ONAN /ONAF) and suitable capacity radiator banks or dry 
type. The protection scheme for transformer shall be: 
 Over current and earth fault protection  (50P,50N,51p,51N) 
 Backup Earth fault protection (64N) 

--- PAGE 82 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 82 of 190 
 
 Buchholz protection  
 Oil/winding temperature protection 
 Pressure Relief valve  
 Local Breaker Backup Protection 
 Grounding and Lightning Protection (surge suppressor) 
 
All relays shall be numerical. 
 
A.3.6 Plant grounding system: 
The plant grounding system will be designed as per the requirements of 
IEEE-80/IEEE 142/IS-3043.  
 
The earth material of the station will be designed such that the total 
ground impedance does not exceed values as described in IS: 3043. 
 
The plant grounding  will utilize mild galvanized steel rods.  Equipment 
grounding conductor will be of galvanized steel flats. (Minimum size 
6mm x 25mm). 
 
Each large structure and building complex will have a ground loop 
around its perimeter.  
 
The ground loops around each structure will be connected to the ground 
grid.  
 
The fence within the ground grid will be bonded to the plant ground 
system.  The power plant ground grid will be connected together with the 
switchyard ground grid. Also grounding grid for phase 2 will be 
interconnected to the phase 1 grid. 
 
The grounding system will be connected to all metallic equipment, 
electrical as well as non -electrical (except underground pipelines), 
located at the plant site. All these will be earthed at two distinct points.  
This will include all structures, buildings, towers, etc.  
 
The chimney and powerhouse building will be equipped with lightning 
protection. Lightning protection conductors located on the top of the 
structures will be connected to the ground loop surrounding the 
structures with down comers as per the provisions contained in the 
latest issues of CEA Regulations and IS 2309. Dedicated 
instrumentation/electronic earthing arrangement shall be provided for 
control systems as per the requirement of the manufacturer. 
A.3.7 Energy Metering: 
i)  Digital energy meters for measuring energy in MWH shall be 
provided as per the Central   Electricity Authority (Installation and 
Operation of Meters) Regulations,2006 and its amendments. 

--- PAGE 83 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 83 of 190 
 
However, the following energy accounting and audit meters shall 
be provided in general: 
 
-  On each incoming generator feeder of 11kV bus (including 
the spare panels) 
 
-  On all 33kV out going feeders (including the spare panels) 
 Energy accounting and audit meters shall be of accuracy 
class of 0.2S. The accuracy class of CTs and VTs shall not be 
inferior to that of associated meters.  
 
ii)  Digital energy meters for measuring energy in KWH shall also be 
provided on LV side of each incoming transformer feeder of 415 V 
bus as per the Central Electricity Authority (Installation and 
Operation of Meters) Regulations, 2006 and its amendments. 
 
Energy accounting and audit meters for LV side shall be of accuracy 
class not inferior to 1.0S a s per CEA regulations. The accuracy class of 
CTs and VTs shall not be inferior to that of associated meters.  
A.3.8 Power and Control Cables : 
11/33 kV cables will be of stranded aluminium conductor with heavy 
duty IS mark XLPE insulated, each core screene d on conductor as well 
as on insulation, colour coded, extruded bedding, extruded PVC inner 
sheathed, armoured and overall FRLS PVC sheathed. The cables will be 
suitable for unearthed system.  
 
LT power cables will be 1100 V grade with stranded aluminium 
conductor, XLPE/PVC insulated, extruded PVC inner sheathed, 
armoured and overall FRLS PVC sheathed.  
Control cables will be multi -core 1100 V grade, PVC insulated, PVC 
inner sheathed armoured and overall FRLS PVC sheathed with 2.5sqmm 
stranded copper conductors.  
 
Main factors, which will be taken into consideration for selection of cable 
sizes, are as follows:  
 System short circuit current  
 Derating factors due to higher ambient temperature and grouping 
of cables  
 Continuous current rating.  
 Voltage drop during starting and continuous operation  
 Standardization of the cable size to minimize too many sizes of 
cables.  
 The cables will conform to the relevant Indian/International 
standards in general with the following special, FRLS properties 
for the outer sheath.  
 Oxygen index of the cable will not be less than 29 when tested in 
accordance with ASTM-D-2863.  

--- PAGE 84 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 84 of 190 
 
 Acid gas emission will be less than 20% as per the requirements of 
IEC-754.  
 Smoke generation will not be more than 63% when tested as per 
ASTM-D-2843.  
 The cable will meet the flammability test as per IEEE-383.  
A.3.9 Illumination System : 
All container enclosures should be provided with sufficient lighting with 
light fittings as per the relevant standard. The plant lighting system 
shall include the normal AC lighting and emergency AC lighting, which 
contribute together 100% lighting as well as emergency DC lighting in 
selected areas of the plant during plant emergency conditions.  The 
emergency AC lighting will provide about 20% of the total AC lighting. 
The plant lighting (illumination level) varies at different locations of the 
plant depending on the utility and nature of work expected to be carried 
out at that area.  
 
The lux level of the lighting shall conform to the relevant 
Indian/International standard & OHSAS standard.  
A.3.9.1 Normal A.C. Lighting of the Plant : 
Lighting feeders will be provided with lighting transformers of voltage 
ratio 1:1 for reducing fault level. For general illumination inside the 
plant, fluorescent fixtures are taken into consideration. However, in 
some places where fluorescent fixtures are  not suitable, high intensity 
discharge (metal halide/sodium vapour) lamps of suitable design 
(medium bay/high bay) are considered. This lighting will be energized 
from 3-phase, 4-wire, 415 V main lighting distribution PCC boards fed 
from suitably rated li ghting transformers. These MLDBs will feed 
lighting panels for each individual area/room.  
A.3.9.2  Emergency AC Lighting : 
Emergency AC lighting will be fed from emergency 125 KVA 415Volts 
AC DG set through emergency switchgear and lighting transformer. 
Under normal plant running condition, Emergency AC lighting will be 
fed from PCC through emergency switchgear and lighting transformer. 
  
A.3.9.3  Emergency DC Lighting : 
Emergency DC lighting will be provided in specific areas such as 
control room, switch gear rooms, areas near local panels, staircases 
and other strategic areas during AC supply failure.  
 
Industrial type receptacles rated for 16A, 20A, 63A, 240/415 AC will 
be provided for all indoor and semi indoor areas such that any point is 
accessible wi thin 25 m for maintenance and testing, portable tools 
and other services.  Flush type single phase receptacles will also be 
provided for office rooms, control rooms and false ceiling areas.  
 

--- PAGE 85 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 85 of 190 
 
A.3.10 LT PMCC Board for Station Auxiliary Loads (through Statio n 
Auxiliary Transformer): 
One no. PMCC panel board shall be supplied for supplying power to 
all the LT AC loads such as plant illumination, air compressor system, 
HVAC system, engine cooling water system (if water cooled), EOT 
crane, battery chargers, plant water supply etc. The PM CC panel shall 
be fed from the station auxiliary power transformer. Emergency DG 
set shall also be connected to the PMCC panel through ATS 
(automatic transfer switch) for feeding the emergency/critical loads of 
the power plant. The system shall be suitably  designed accordingly 
taking into account all such eventualities. The PMCC panel shall 
broadly have the following compartments / sections. 
 
A)  Incomer section 
B)  Bus chamber 
C)  Outgoing Feeder section 
D)  Cable chamber / cable alley 
 
Incoming feeder &  outgoing feeder Instruments are to be of proper 
range of digital Voltmeter, digital Ammeter (or digital multi -function 
meter showing voltage, current, Frequency, Power factor, Power and 
Energy,  LED type indication lamps for „phase Healthy‟, „Feeder ON‟, 
„Feeder OFF‟, „Feeder tripped‟ etc. HRC instrument fuses are to be 
used as per requirement.  
 
All incoming and outgoing feeders shall be through microprocessor 
controlled adjustable rating MCCBs for overcurrent and short circuit 
protection. The incomer MCC B will have inbuilt type earth fault  
protection, with adjustable current and time setting. The outgoing 
MCCBs shall have earth leakage  type protection with inbuilt earth 
leakage sensing module or separate CBCT/earth leakage relay 
combination. The earth lea kage type protection will also have 
adjustable current and time settings (from 0.03 A to 3.0 A and time 
from 0 to 3 seconds).  
 
The incomer and outgoing cables shall be connected to the panel 
breakers through individual brought out connection in the rear o f the 
panel. Sufficient clearance between individual phases of the same 
panel and between adjacent panels shall be maintained for easy 
workability and maintenance. Suitable barriers shall also be provided 
between outgoing terminals of the adjacent panels. Suitable cable 
glands are to be used for entry of cables.   
 
The busbars shall consist of 1 set of hard drawn, high conductivity, 
TPN (neutral equally rated to phase bars), electrolytic grade, virgin 
aluminium bars (bus rating shall be calculated by the su pplier to 
cater to connected loads as well as future provision), supported at 
sufficient intervals on non -hygroscopic, non -inflammable GRP/SMC 

--- PAGE 86 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 86 of 190 
 
supports. Busbars shall be rated to withstand short circuit fault 
currents of 50 KA for 1 second. The busbar indi vidual phases shall be 
colour coded for easy identification. Main busbars shall be full length 
of the panel. Vertical bus bars for feeding individual starter/feeder 
shall be full height of the panel. Sufficient clearance shall be 
maintained in the bus cham ber for proper cooling of the busbar. 
Busbar should be extensible type to facilitate future extension. 
A.3.11  Plant Communication : 
The plant communication system will be provided to facilitate 
operations by establishing fast communications among the operating 
personnel stationed at various locations of the plant.  
 
The plant Communication System will consist of the following:  
 
 Telephone system completes with EPABX with VOIP 
compatibility, telephone sets in the Power Plant and associated 
administration buildings.  
A.3.12  Station DC System : 
The DC power system provides DC power to protection and control 
requirements and the esse ntial loads that are required to function on 
a loss of AC power.  The DC system comprises of:  
 110 V DC battery  
 Battery chargers (float cum boost charger)  
 DC distribution boards. 
A.3.13 Battery : 
The batteries will be sized for the required load and two hour duty 
cycle duration, taking into account approximate temperature 
correction, design margin and aging compensation factors.  
Battery will be of storage type lead acid with plate or tubular positive 
plates. Two (2) nos. redundant batteries set at have b een considered. 
This battery shall feed the station DC including Lighting and 
Switchyard DC requirements. 
A.3.14 Battery Chargers : 
One (1) no. battery charger for each battery set (float cum boost) of 
suitable capacity will be provided for quick boost and trickle charging.  
 
The battery charger will be of solid -state control rectifier type, 
completely automatic and self-regulating.  
 
The float charger will be capable of floating the battery and at the 
same time supply the continuous DC load of the unit. 
 
The boost charger will be capable of boost charging the battery a fully 
discharged battery to a state of full charge in 12 hours. 

--- PAGE 87 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 87 of 190 
 
 
 Normal operation: During normal operation (when main power 
available) the load is supplied from the mains through the 
converter. The converter also supplies the current for charging 
battery in fully charge state. 
 
 Mains failure: When the main power fails, the battery supplies 
the load. During this phase the battery discharges and 
maintains the load in normal operation. 
 
 Main supply resumes: When the main supply resumes the 
charger return automatically to normal mode of operation. The 
converter starts to recharge the battery as well as supply power 
to the load. 
A.3.15  DC Distribution Boards : 
The main DC distribution board s and other DC switchboards will be 
suitably designed to meet the requirement of the plant and these 
boards will have short -circuited ratings consistent with the available 
short circuit current.  
A.3.16  Uninterruptible Power Supply System : 
The uninterruptible power supply (UPS) system furnishes a reliable 
and interruption free source of required voltage, three/single phase 
power to equipment / instrument vital for plant control and 
emergency shutdown. The UPS is to be of Microprocessor based . 
Battery would be similar to unit batteries as mentioned above.  
 
One (1) UPS unit (1x100%) will be furnished for each unit of the Power 
Plant sized to feed essential AC loads like DCS and other C&I 
equipment.  
The DC supply for the UPS system will be sourced from station DC 
system. The UPS system will be provided with two (1) nos. 100% 
capacity inverter.  
 
An alternative 240 V A.C. single -phase source through by pass 
transformer and stabilizer is provided throug h a static transfer switch 
to feed the vital A.C. loads during the failure of both the inverters. 
 
A.4.0 Emergency DG Set : 
There should be a provision for Emergency Generating Set for supply 
of emergency power in the Power Plant in case of no power situat ion 
for whatever reason may be in the Plant. The capacity of the 
Emergency Generating set should be so designed that this generating 
set shall be capable to supply power for the plant illumination and 
also to restart the bare equipment required to start th e Power Plant 
again.  The Emergency Generating Set shall be Diesel Engine Driven 
Generating Set. The emergency power shall be provided by the party 

--- PAGE 88 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 88 of 190 
 
and automatic Change over arrangements for emergency services shall 
be provided by the bidder. This generati ng set may also be used 
during installation of the Power plant. 
 
Specifications of DG Set (Black start): 125 KVA  
The Diesel engine should be a four stroke, multi cylinder, 
turbocharged/Natural aspirated, heat exchanger/ radiator cooled 
engine rated for continuous power and capable of developing at least 
145 Net Brake Horse power at 1500 rpm (maximum) with a maximum 
compression ratio of 18:1.  Only single stage turbo charging is 
allowable. The engine should comprise of the following sub systems. 
 
a)  Cooling System 
The cooling system of water cooled engine should comprise of an 
engine mounted water pump, an industrial type heavy duty 
radiator/ heat exchanger suitable for operation in ambient 
temperature of 48 Deg C and a blower fan. 
 
(i)  The engine jacket  water cooling system should be a closed 
circuit design with provision for filling, expansion, and de -
aeration. The cooling pump should be driven by the engine. 
Auxiliary coolant pump required for heat exchanger or 
separate circuit after cooling should als o be engine driven. 
Coolant temperature should be internally regulated to 
disconnect external cooling system until operating 
temperature is achieved. 
 
(ii)  Radiator, Engine Mounted: Heat rejected to the engine 
jacket water shall be discharged to the atmosphere through 
a close coupled radiator. The radiator shall be sized to cool 
the engine continuously while operating at full rated load 
and at site conditions of 48 Deg C ambient. 
(iii)  Blower Fan: The radiator cooling fan shall be a blower type 
driven from the engine. Air shall be drawn from the engine 
side and exhausted through the radiator core with no more 
than 12.7 mm( 0.5 Inch ) of water external restriction in 
addition to core restrictions. 
 
(iv)  Fan and Belt guarding: The fan, fan drive, and fan be lts 
shall be covered with punched steel mesh guarding for 
personnel protection. 
 
b)    Air Intake System: 
The air intake system should comprise of a heavy duty engine 
air cleaner mounted on the engine with a vacuum indicator and 
air intake manifold with dr y element requiring replacement no 
more frequently than 500 hours or once each year. 
 

--- PAGE 89 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 89 of 190 
 
c)  Electric Starting System: 
The engine should have an electric starting system comprising 
of a Maintenance Free Heavy Duty Battery pack of reputed 
make having a minimum  capacity 180 ampere hours with a 
alternator mounted on the engine for a battery charging and a 
24 Volt starter( preferably of LUCAS TVS/DELCO REMY make), 
starter relay, and automatic reset circuit breaker to protect 
against butt engagement. Batteries shal l be maintenance free, 
lead acid type mounted near the alternator. Batteries should be 
housed in a hard rubber or polypropylene case with provision 
for venting. Required cables should be furnished and sized to 
satisfy circuit requirements. 
 
d)  Battery Charger: 
The battery charger is to be a solid -state device with adjustable 
float voltage control. It is to be a constant voltage device with 
current limit, and it is to include an equalize switch which will 
allow the battery to be overcharged for maintenance purpose. 
 
e)  Fuel System: 
The fuel system should comprise of fuel pump with Governor, 
fuel pump, fuel injectors, 12 volt DC solenoid coil, Replaceable 
fuel filter. Diesel tank of minimum 200 litres capacity tank 
fabricated from 14SWG sheet metal built and same would be 
integrated in the base of the Gen set inside acoustic container 
complete with drain valve, air vent, and inlet and outlet 
connection. The fuel tank shall be suitable for minimum 8 
hours continuous running of DG set. 
 
f)  Exhaust System: 
(i) The exhaust system should comprise of water cooled 
exhaust manifold, stainless steel exhaust flexible 
connection, residential type exhaust silencer, spark 
arrestor and piping connections 
(ii)  Heavy walled piping of schedule 40 with radii of 90 Deg 
bend at least 1½ times the pipe diameter. Piping should be 
installed with appropriate insulation and shielding. 
 
(iii)  Piping should be supported and braced to prevent weight 
or thermal growth being transferred to the engine and 
flexible expansion fittings provided to accommodate 
thermal growth. 
 
g)  Lubricating System: 
The lubricating system should comprise of lubricating oil pump, 
lubricating oil filter with a replaceable paper element, 
lubricating oil cooler, lubricating oil pan and crankcase 
breather. 

--- PAGE 90 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 90 of 190 
 
i)  The lubricating oil pump shall be a positive displacement 
type that is integral with the engine and gear driven from 
the engine gear train. The system shall incorporate full flow 
filtration with bypass valve to continue lubrication in the 
event of filter clogging. 
 
(ii)  The bypass valve must be integral with the engine filter 
base of receptacle. 
 
h)  Instrument Panel: 
The engine mounted instrument panel shall consist of a shock -
mounted formed and welded enclosure. Provide Metric marked 
gauges as above. 
 
The instrument panel should include the following: 
(i)  Lubricating Oil pressure gauge 
(ii)  Lubricating oil temperature gauge 
(iii)  Water temperature gauge 
(iv)  Starting Switch 
(v)  Mechanical/Digital tachometer and hour meter 
(vi)  Circuit Breaker 
(vii)  Ampere meter 
(viii)  Electric service meter 
 
i)  Engine Safety Controls: 
Engine mounted safety shut off / trip system for tripping the 
engine in the event of 
(i)  Low lubricating oil pressure 
(ii)  High cooling water temperature 
(iii)  Engine over speed 
(iv)  Low & High Battery Voltage Warning 
(v)  Weak Battery Warning 
(vi)  Fail To Start Shutdown, 
 
j)   Other  Features: 
(i)  flexible /direct coupling 
(ii)  viscous vibration dampener 
(iii)  flywheel with housing 
(iv)  lifting eyes 
(v)  coupling guar d, guards over belt drives (blower fan drive, 
water pump drive pulley, charging alternator drive pulley 
and timing pulley). 
(vi)  standard painting 
(vii)  suitable hand throttle control 
(viii)  mechanical hour meter 
(ix)  SAE standard rotation 
 
 

--- PAGE 91 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 91 of 190 
 
GENERAL NOTES ON ENGINE: 
(a)  The engine shall conform to ISO 3046/ IS1000 /BS 5514 
specifications and shall be rated for continuous power with an 
over load power rating of 110 % of the continuous power 
corresponding to engine application , for a period of 1 hr wi thin 
a period of 12hrs of operation. 
 
(b)  The bidder should submit the following information along with 
relevant performance rating curves and engine product 
catalogues 
Gross HP developed at rated RPM 
Deduction for fan, charging alternator and other ancil lary 
equipment 
Net HP developed at rated RPM 
Specific fuel consumption at rated power as well as 110%, 75%, 
50% of rated load 
 
Alternator Specifications: 
Alternator: 
Alternator shall be designed, constructed and tested as per IS: 4722, 
with the following requirements: 
1) Rating: 125 KVA, 415 Volts, 50 Hz, 3 Phase, 0.80 PF and 1500 
RPM 
2) Enclosure (SPDP) screen protected drip proof & degree of 
protection (Min.), IP-23(As per IS: 4691) 
3) Rated Voltage: 415 Volts 
4) Voltage regulation (Maximum): ± 1% 
5) RPM: As per engine rated speed (Max. 1500) 
6) Frequency: 50 Hz 
7) Rated Power factor: 0.80 lagging  
8) Insulation: Class “F/H” 
9) Connection: 6 wire, with external provision for star connection 
in the generator terminal box.  
10) Bearings:  Oil/ grease lubricated ball/ roller/ sealed and 
single/double 
11) Phase sequence: UVW - phase sequence and direction of 
rotation shall be clearly marked on the alternator. 
12) Duty/load: S1- Continuous duty rated  
13) Excitation: Brushless, self - excited, self -regulated with solid 
state AVR. Voltage characteristics - VG3 as per Table -1, IS: 
13364 (Part-1/2). Exciters shall be rated 1.25 times the full load 
(rated) conditions. 
14) Over speed: 1.2 times rated speed for two minutes without any 
damage 
15) Efficiency: As per IS: 4889 & tolerance as per IS: 13364 (Part -
1/2) 
16) Temperature rise:  As per IS: 13364 (Part-1/2) 

--- PAGE 92 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 92 of 190 
 
17) Overload capacity: 110% of continuous rated power for one hour 
in any period of 12 hours consecutive running 
18) Type of AVR: Electronic, In the event of any fault due to over 
voltage/high bearing temperature/high winding temperature, or 
an external fault, the AVR shall remove the excitation voltage to 
the alternator. An emergency trip PB shall also be provided. 
19) Earthing: As per IS: 3043 
20) Cooling: Fan air cooled 
21) Coupling: Rigid coupling 
22) Alternators Enclosure Protection: Min. IP 23 
23) Alternators Terminal Box Protection: Min. IP 54: Terminal box 
shall be suitable for terminating Cu/Al armoured PVC cables  
24) Anti-condensation heater: 230 volts 50 Hz 
25) Embedded type Bearing and Winding Temperature Detectors 
26) Frame size: Bidder to specify 
27) Lifting eye bolts in the frame.  
28) Mounting:  Foot mounted on Gen set skid that has been 
mounted on anti-vibration pad. 
29) Protection: overcurrent/short circuit/earth leakage/over - and 
under voltage/over - and under frequency/enclosure over 
temperature 
 
Alternator shall have: 
1) Permissible voltage variation: As per Table -1, IS -13364 (Part -
1/2) 
2) Permissible frequency variation: As per IS-13364(Part-1/2) 
3) Permissible waveform deviation: As per IS-13364 (Part-1/2) 
4) Permissible unbalanced current: As per IS-13364 (Part-1/2) 
5) Permissible short circuit current: As per IS-13364 (Part-1/2) 
6) Permissible voltage swing (Transient response): As per IS -13364 
(Part-1/2) 
7) Permissible harmonic distortion factor: As per IS -13364 (Part -
1/2) 
8) Permissible vibration: As per IS-12075 
 
Bidder shall specify the following in their offer: 
a)  Efficiency of the alternator: At 25%, 50%, 75% and 100% load 
b)  Power factor of the alternator: At 25%, 50%, 75% and 100% load 
 
Construction of Alternator: 
a)   The brushless alternator shall have exciter and rotating 
rectifier-bridge mounted on shaft complete with diodes and 
surge suppressor, main field windings and stator windings. PIV 
of exciter diodes must be 800v or 8 times the maximum exciter 
armature operating voltage, whichever is higher. At  nominal 
speed the excitation system must produce sufficient residual 
voltage in order to ensure self-excitation. 
 

--- PAGE 93 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 93 of 190 
 
 All windings should be made from electrolytic grade copper of 
high purity. 
 
b)    Automatic voltage regulator should be mounted with approve d 
rubber bushes under AVR mounting holes to reduce vibration. 
AVR shall be suitable for motor loads, VG3 regulation. 
 
 Alternator windings and AVR shall be suitable for humid 
atmosphere as per ambient conditions mentioned in the 
enquiry. 
 
Alternator stator  winding terminals are to be connected to 4 
nos. of suitably rated tinned copper terminals, supported on 
SMC/GRP supports inside the alternator terminal box. 
 
c)    The alternator terminal box should be of suitable size and 
should be suitable for terminating power cables of alternator. 
 
d)    Two nos. of earth points are to be provided on both sides of the 
alternator. Lifting hooks are to be provided for lifting the 
alternator. 
 
SPECIFICATION OF GENERATOR CONTROL PANEL 
Sheet steel clad, self -supporting, floor mounting, cubicle type, dust 
and vermin proof generating set control panel made of 2mm thick MS 
CRCA sheet and built upon rigid framework of channels, beams as 
required, having front and rear hinged doors with dange r plate fitted 
on both sides, lifting lugs on top, ventilation louvers on both sides, 
bottom detachable gland plates, double earthing studs on two sides, 
complete with suitably sized zinc passivated hard wares with heavy 
plain and spring washers. The panel  doors should have neoprene 
rubber gasket. The panel should be designed and manufactured as 
per IS -8623. The panel enclosure will be as per IP54 except for the 
open part of cooling louvers at bottom and top of the panel sides. 
Suitable wire mesh should be provided on the inner side of the louvers 
to prevent entry of insects. The metal surface of the panel should be 
given seven tanks anti corrosion treatment and then powder coated in 
DA grey colour (Min. 50 micron thick paint). The frame should be able 
to wi thstand the stress and vibration during transportation and 
operation. All cable entry shall be from bottom side. Separate 
removable gland plates shall be provided for all cables. Provision shall 
be made in the bottom channel for grouting of the panel. 
 
The detail description of the panel is as described below: 
1.  Generator control panel mounted MCCB should trip on the 
following faults. 
i)  Over load, short circuit and earth fault. Tripping from 
internal trip unit of MCCB. 

--- PAGE 94 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 94 of 190 
 
ii)  Under Frequency. From Frequency Relay 
iii)  Engine fault (Low lub oil, high water temp, over speed). Trip 
contact from engine protection system. 
 
PROTECTIVE AND METERING DEVICES AND INDICATING LAMPS:  
(Mounted on front hinged door of Control Panel) 
i)     1 No. Power & Energy mo nitor showing Voltage, current, power 
(KW), Power factor, KWH & Maximum demand,  5 elements of 
power showing at a glance with communication port compatible 
to PCs. Make of Meter - Siemens (Sentron PAC 3200)/ 
SOCOMEC -HPL ( Model -DIRIS A 40/A41)/ Schneider  Group 
(Model- PM700). Bar Primary Resin Cast CT of 200/5 ratio, 15 
VA burden, class -1, conforming to IS 2705.No of CTs as per 
circuit requirement. Make of CT: AEI/ kappa / L&T 
 
ii)   1 No. Digital micro controller based Frequency Relay. Relay 
shall have d igital display, tropicalised design. Frequency and 
time settings adjustable in steps. Relay to have potential free 
output contacts, 240V AC, 6 amp. Make: ProkDvs, ABB. 
 
iii)   Hour meter to record running hours of the genset. 
 
iv)  The control panel should  have indication lamps mounted on 
panel front door for following faults and indications. All lamps 
shall be of LED type, having long life and low energy 
consumption. Binay, L&T, Siemens Make. 
a)    Low Engine Speed (From frequency relay) 
b)    Engine fault 
c)    Three nos. Red/ Yellow/ Blue for Incoming Supply 
d)    Set on load 
e)    Electrical fault (From aux contact of trip unit of MCCB) 
 
MAIN COMPONENTS: (Mounted Inside the Control Panel) 
i)    Panel should have one set of TP & N electrolytic grade, high  
conductivity, electro tinned copper bus -bars, made from 
rectangular sections confirming to IS, rated 300 amps (Free air 
rating of sections) and supported at required intervals to 
withstand short circuit fault levels up to 25 KA for 1 Sec. Rating 
of neutral bus shall be minimum 50% of phase bus rating. Bus -
bar support shall be non - hygroscope GRP/FRP and the Bus -
bar shall be insulated with heat shrinkable PVC sleeves. 
 
ii)    Incoming and outgoing power cables shall terminate on 
electrolytic grade, high con ductivity electro tinned copper links 
liberally sized for termination of all power cables. Neutral bar 
shall also have provision for connection of neutral earth cables. 
Power cable from alternator terminal box to control panel input 

--- PAGE 95 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 95 of 190 
 
shall be supplied and c onnected by party if the control panel 
shall be located inside the acoustic enclosure. 
 
iii)  1 No. 415v, 250 Amps, 4 pole, MCCB, 25 KA breaking capacity, 
with inbuilt microprocessor based, adjustable overload & short 
circuit and earth fault protection, Un der voltage trip coil. Rotary 
operating handle shall be provided on the panel door for manual 
operation of MCCB. MCCB shall have suitable indication in case 
of trip from trip unit of MCCB.  
 Make: Schneider/Legrand/Siemens. 
 
iv)   One no. four pole on load  changeover type switch rated for 300 
amp. The switch shall be mounted on the genset skid with 
suitable enclosure. Connection links shall be provided with 
switch for proper termination of all power cables. Power wiring 
from control panel to COS shall be do ne by the party. Sufficient 
space and arrangement shall also be provided in COS enclosure 
for entry and termination of main power cable to OIL's PCC. The 
power cable is 3.5x 120 sq mm, PVC insulated, PVC sheathed, 
Armoured cable with copper conductor.   
 Make of switch: HPL- Socomec/GE/Siemens. 
 
vi) Contactor type Auxiliary Relay, all relays with minimum 2 nos 
spare contacts. No. of relays should be as per the control circuit 
requirement. Plug in type relays and contactors shall not be 
used. Current rating of a ux contacts shall be as per control 
circuit requirement. Make-Siemens/GE 
 
vi)    HRC instrument fuse holders phenol moulded with suitable 
fuses & links for different circuits. Separate fuses and neutral 
links should be provided for control circuit indicating system 
lamps, instruments, enclosure illumination and tripping circuit. 
Make-GE 
 
WIRING SCHEME 
i) Control voltage for generator control: 240v AC. Control system 
wiring shall be done with 1.5sqmm, flexible copper, 1100v grade 
PVC insulated wires app roved by ISI, TAC, FIA. All wiring will 
have copper lugs & terminal blocks as required. Wiring for 
lighting circuit MCB, power outlet and wiring for CT will be done 
with 2.5sqmm, flexible copper, 1100v grade PVC insulated wires 
approved by ISI, TAC, FIA& h ave copper lugs. Colour code for 
wires shall be followed as per IS. Make: Finolex / Havells or any 
reputed brand. 
 
ii) All power and control wiring inside the enclosure shall be done 
at manufacturer's works with armoured cables or with single 
core cables laid in metallic conduits/ casings. Heavy duty Single 

--- PAGE 96 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 96 of 190 
 
Compression Cable Glands shall be provided at all cable entries 
for armoured cables. Cables with conduit wiring shall have 
suitable entry clamp. All cables shall be with stranded copper 
conductor and shall be of 1100v grade and approved by ISI. 
 
iii) All control cable terminal ends will have suitable heavy duty 
crimping lugs of tinned copper. Ferrules shall be provided for 
identification of cables. All components shall be labeled for 
identification. 
 
iv) Separate glan d plates shall be provided for power and control 
cables. 
 
v) Separate TB shall be provided for all interconnection cables 
between control panel and engine. 
 
vi) Provision of exhaust blower power supply shall be required if the 
blower is fitted inside the. 
 
vii) Power supply arrangement with switching and protection shall 
be also provided for any auxiliary motor, if installed for genset 
operation. 
 
viii)  All auxiliary and main contactors shall be mounted on DIN 
channel. Plug in relays shall not be used. 
 
Control panel shall preferably be manufactured by the Genset 
Manufacturer. 
 
Acoustic Enclosure of the Emergency Gen -Set: Acoustic enclosure 
is to be made up of compact steel design (CRCA) conforming to CPCB 
norms. It shall be painted with weather proof, acid proof , heat 
resistant paint after pre treatment of  minimum seven tank method, 
derusting, pickling, phosphating and passivation etc. and application 
of one coat of primer  for durability and better look. OIL emblem shall 
be made both sides. Acoustic enclosure f or DG set for sound 
attenuation fabricated from 2.0 mm CRCA sheet steel (Structure) with 
side fabricated from 2.0 mm CRCA sheet & filled with 100 mm thick 
fire retardant glass wool/rock wool/mineral wool (96 kg/m³) as per IS: 
8183. The insulation material shall be covered with fine glass fiber 
cloth and would be supported by perforated SS Sheet. The hinged 
doors of 100 mm thick and fabricated from 1.6 mm CRCA sheet 
packed with acoustic material. The floor of MSS chequered plate 5.0 
mm thick, canopy fixed wi th axial flow fan of industrial heavy duty of 
reputed make, All doors/opening are to be  sealed with 
neoprene/EPDN gaskets. 
 

--- PAGE 97 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 97 of 190 
 
The enclosure shall have built in fuel tank, residential silencer 
(Isolated from main DG chamber) with protection and tripping of D G 
set against temperature of more than 50° C. The controls for operation 
of the DG set shall be from outside as far as applicable. The enclosure 
for the DG  control panel with emergency stop switch mounted inside 
enclosure shall be  visible and accessible from outside. Noise level 
shall be less than 75 db (A) at a distance of 1 meter duly certified by 
authorized agency etc. complete in all respect. The enclosure shall be 
provided with suitable size & no. of hinged type doors along the length 
of the enclosur e on each side for easy access inside the acoustic and 
sufficient space for inspection, operation and maintenance purpose. 
The drain oil collector shall be provided at the bottom. 
 
Ventilation: Provision shall be made for heat dissipation inside the 
enclosure by eliminating the excessive heat within the acoustic 
enclosure through suitable number of dynamically balanced 
blowers/exhaust fans and louvers. The difference of ambient 
temperature inside the enclosure and outside ambient should not be 
more than 7 d eg. Celsius. Provision of sufficient capacity blower will 
be made inside the enclosure which provides combustion air 
requirement of the engine. Power for these blowers/fans shall be 
provided either from the engine power train or electrically and 
provision for these in all respects shall be in the scope of 
manufacturer and supplier. 
 
Modular Construction:  The acoustic enclosure will be made on the 
basis of modular construction i.e. made in parts which can be 
assembled or disassembled at site. The complete unit should be on a 
sturdy steel frame with lifting eye bolts so as to allow transportation 
without dismantling of any components and without causing damage 
to the unit during lifting. The viewing meter and control panel shall be 
at right side (viewed from alternator) of the DG set.  
 
Lighting & Power utilities:  The lighting arrangement with sufficient 
illumination and emergency lights shall be provided inside the 
enclosure will have three nos. of well glass/bulkhead type luminaries 
suspended from the enclosure top and wired with heavy duty PVC 
insulated and PVC sheathed armoured, stranded copper cable 
approved by IS. Lights will be switched from individual MCBs, 6 amp, 
C curve, mounted on control panel cover & have back -up HRC fuse 
and neutral link of 16 amp rating. One no. industrial type metallic 
plug socket of 20 amp rating with 10 amp SP MCB as switch s hould 
also be fed from lighting circuit fuse. The socket should be mounted 
on the enclosure side. Power for lighting circuit and socket outlet 
should be taken from the main bus. 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 98 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 98 of 190 
 
A.5.0)   Basic Control and instrument requirements functions of the 
Plant: 
 Automatic program sequence for start and stop for the gas 
engine plant 
 Reliable control of the exhaust gas emissions to low values 
 Integrated digital speed and power control 
 Connection of actuators and sensors at the I/O controller in the 
auxiliary power unit control cabinet and data transmission 
 Monitoring of all sensors at the unit 
 Monitoring of the engine cooling water 
 Control and monitoring of the lubricating oil circuit inclusive oil 
pre- and after-lubrication as well as oil change 
 Test mode for checki ng the connected actuators, sensors and 
auxiliary power units 
 Electronic line recorder for measured values for control and 
diagnostic purposes over periods of 40h/6min as well as 
synchronous with work cycle 
 Electronic operation diary for recording any warning, 
malfunction and operational messages with date and time for 
detailed monitoring of the operation 
 Electronic operating hours counter with breakdown in 5 load 
ranges 
 Connection option for one workstation 
 Engine cooling water control: The cooling wat er circuit control 
ensures an optimal cooling water temperature by piloting a 
three-way valve. The cooling water inflow temperature is 
increased for partial load 
 Serial coupling for data exchange:  
 Intercooling circuit: Control of the intercooling water in flow 
temperature by piloting a control valve in the intercooling water 
circuit; monitoring of the receiver temperature 
 I/O controller: The I/O controller controls the auxiliary power 
units, pumps, valves, etc. and records the respective measured 
values The I/O controller is delivered loose for installation in the 
auxiliary power unit control cabinet 
 16configurable messages: Digital inputs with comprehensive 
configuration options in order to be able to connect plant -
specific malfunctions, warnings or message s directly to the HMI 
system. Monitoring a plant is thus considerably easier and 
clearer by the protocol function in the operation diary.  
 Antiknock control: Highly dynamic individual antiknock control 
for each cylinder to ensure safe operation of the engi ne also at a 
low methane number. Maximum possible power with best 
degrees of efficiency while complying with emission thresholds 
 Variable monitoring of the exhaust gas temperature after 
exhaust gas turbochargers A and B: Display (screen, history, 
serial co upling) and variable monitoring of the exhaust gas 

--- PAGE 99 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 99 of 190 
 
temperature after the exhaust gas turbocharger. A malfunction 
will be triggered if a configurable limit value is exceeded 
 Measurement and restriction of the exhaust gas turbocharger 
speeds: Display (screen , history, serial coupling) and restriction 
of the exhaust gas turbocharger speeds 
 Monitoring of the generator bearing temperatures: Display 
(screen, history, serial coupling) and monitoring of the two 
generator bearing temperatures. A malfunction or warni ng is 
triggered if a configurable limit value is exceeded 
 To protect the engine, the basic bearing temperature (main 
engine bearing temperature) has to be recorded and monitored. 
Exceeding the limit value will trigger a warning and then a 
malfunction, depending on by how much it was exceeded 
 The controls the intake air pre -heating by piloting the control 
valve. Where preheating is requested, the intake air temperature 
is regulated according to the configurable target value. The 
controller actuates the control valve of the heat exchanger unit 
 Connection for service PC: Rugged service connector at the HMI 
unit control cabinet. then the service PC is connected, a control 
unit will interrupt the connection to the workstation or any 
modem that might be connected.  
 To protect the catalytic converter, the System should measure 
the exhaust gas temperature after the catalytic converter and 
monitors it in dependence on the operating point. A malfunction 
will be  triggered if the configurable limit value is exceede d 
Central Control 
   Workstation: with 15" TFT colour  display and USB printer, 
key dongle or USB memory stick 
 
A.5.1 Central Control Room / Control Equipment Room : 
Central Control Room (CCR) is envisaged from where complete 
operation of the plant is performed.  This control room will house all 
CRT/LCD consoles, back -up unit control panel housing annunciator, 
emergency push button etc., unit / station auxiliaries, bus transfer 
panel, transformer and switchgear control panel, generator relay 
panel, Synchronizing panel, fire and smoke detection panel etc., with 
all control, auxiliary and power cables along with associated cable 
trenches, ducts etc. An Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS) will be 
employed to supply AC power to essential control, safety and 
information system such as annunciators, protection system, control 
panels etc. The building shall include all the required closed spaces 
including but not limiting to Office Room, store room, Owner‟s office, 
Toilets etc. There should be conference room to accommodate at least 
10 (ten) people at a time with adequate furniture. The conference room 
should have the facilities for connecting PCs and projectors. The 
control room shall be a brick building with air conditioning and 
ventilation system. 
 

--- PAGE 100 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 100 of 190 
 
A.6.0 Auxiliary systems required for Plant Operation and Maintenance: 
A.6.1  Air Compressor System: 
For Generating Sets with electrical starting system there should be at 
least two numbers of Air Compressor in the Power Plant. One unit to 
be in operation and the  second unit to be in stand by mode. The Air 
compressors should be electrical motor driven with capacity sufficient 
to cold start the Main Generating Set Units. 
 
In addition to the Electrical Motor driven units there should be at 
least one number Diesel En gine Driven Unit to be used in case of 
Power failure or for cold starting of the Units. The Diesel Engine 
driven Air compressor should be designed for cold start the Units. 
 
The Air Compressors should conform to IS: 6206 standard. The design 
of the drive motors and Diesel Engine should be governed by the same 
principles as laid down under the criteria for the Main Generating 
Sets Units save the capacity. The Air vessels should be constructed as 
per the OISD safety standard no. 128. 
A.6.2 HVAC System: 
Suitable HVAC/air conditioning system for the control room (and 
areas where controlled temperature is to be maintained) shall be 
designed, supplied and installed as a part of the total package. 
 
The following are the basic requirement for the air-conditioning 
system: 
 
Temperature is to be maintained at 20 deg. Celsius. 
Humidity is to be maintained at 45-55%. 
 
A.6.3  Area Illumination of the Plant: 
Sufficient area lighting shall be provided for illumination of the entire 
plant area and boundary by Sodium vapour/ Metal halide flood light 
fittings with standard height GI LT poles or High mast light system 
through automatic control system. Individual Co nnection for light 
fittings shall be done by proper size of PVCA Al/copper cable through 
underground cables in trenches (buried/pucca). 
 
A.6.4  Power Pack Container 
Power Pack container shall be designed to perform at the maximum 
efficiency/output of the Gas Engine Generation Set at various ambient 
conditions with sufficient ventilation and acoustic sound level of not 
more than 85 dBA at one metre distance of power pack at free field 
condition. 
 
Construction: 
The container will be constructed with steel frames.  It should consist 
of fully vertical-corrugated steel side‟s and horizontal -corrugated steel 

--- PAGE 101 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 101 of 190 
 
double door at rear end.  Roof is die-stamped steel with corner fittings.  
The sub assemblies of the container  and material specification are 
stated below. 
  
Base frame Assembly  – Base frame consist of front and rear bottom 
sill, left and right bottom side rail, floor cross members and floor with 
corner casting with fork lift pockets. 
 
Front and rear Assembly  – This consists of doors and insulated 
louvers, bottom end rail, top end rail, door locking mechanism, hinges 
etc. 
 
Side Assembly – It consists of front and rear corner post, inner corner 
post for additional support.  Equipment access doors are provided.  
Process connections for LT, HT, Gas and Water line are provided. 
 
Roof Assembly  – Main sheet is from die stamped roof and corner 
castings.  Opening for exhaust and ventilation connection and drain 
points are provided.  Roof is further strengthened by roof  structural 
supports to take load of engine/Alternator parts during maintenance. 
 
Insulation – Internal side of the container is fully acoustic insulated 
to achieve high NRC (Noise reduction coefficient).  High density Rock 
wool layered with FRP glass mat to cover the insulation material.  This 
layer is than is covered by galvanized iron perforated sheet. 
 
1. Materials Specification : 
 
Sl. Description MOC 
1 Cross Member sand structural 
steel 
IS2062 / IS808 
2 Formed sections IS5986 / IS1079 
3 Corrugated Sheet IS5986 / IS1079 
4 Insulation material IS8183 
5 Chequered Plate IS3508 
6 Process Connections ASA 150 
 
 
2. Surface preservation and Painting: 
All steel surfaces prior to forming or after will be fully abrasive 
shot blasted conforming to relevant standard to remove all rust, 
dirt, mill scale and all other foreign materials. 
 
Prior to assembly All steel surfaces will be coated with 10 – 15 
microns thick two-pack polyamide cured zinc rich epoxy primer 
immediately after shot blasting, and then dried u p in drying 
room. 
 

--- PAGE 102 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 102 of 190 
 
All weldments will be shot blasted to remove all welding fluxes, 
spatters, burnt primer coatings caused by welding heat, and 
other foreign materials.  Then all blasted weldments will be 
coated with zinc rich epoxy primer. 
 
All fasteners such as self -tapping screws and bolts, nuts, 
hinges, cam keepers, lashing fittings it is electro-galvanized with 
approximately 13 microns thickness. 
 
Top coating – After drying of primer, exterior of container will be 
coated again with high build top paint  and interior will be 
coated again with polyamide cured epoxy resin based high build 
coating. 
 
Under coating – After completion of flooring, all the 
understructures and floor will be coated with minimum 230 
microns dry film thickness bituminous coating. 
 
3. Some suggested Dimensions AS PER REQUIREMENT: 
 
Category – I: 
 
Sl Description Length 
(mm) 
Width 
(mm) 
Height 
(mm) 
1 Dimension with Door 
closed 
12192 2438 2896 
2 Dimension with Door 
Open 
14592 4850 8879 
3 Door Rear – Panel NA 2338 2624 
4 Door Side – Access NA 2338 2624 
 
Category – II 
 
Sl Description Length 
(mm) 
Width 
(mm) 
Height 
(mm) 
1 Dimension with Door 
closed 
10668 2438 2896 
2 Dimension with Door 
Open 
13018 4765 6911 
3 Door Rear – Panel NA 2338 2624 
4 Door Side – Access NA 2338 2624 
 
4. Handling 
The container will be constructed to be capable of being handled 
without any Permanent deformation under the following 
conditions: 
 

--- PAGE 103 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 103 of 190 
 
a) Lifting, full or empty, at top corner fittings vertically by 
means of spreaders fitted with hooks, shackles or twist 
locks. 
 
b) Lifting, full or empty, at bottom corner fittings using slings 
with terminal fittings at any angles between vertical and 45 
degrees to the horizontal. 
 
5. Transportation: The container will be constructed to be 
suitable for transportation in the various modes  such as Road, 
Rain or Marine. 
 
6. General Arrangement Drawing:- 
Following General Arrangement Drawing for category – II 
Container is just for guidance, which is indicative only.  The 
PARTY may offer suitable container for the purpose meant for. 
 
Note :  
The maximum permissible sound level shall be 75dB (A) at one 
metre from the enclosure surface. 
 
c)  Exhaust silencer shall be provided of the size as recommended 
by the manufacturer and shall attenuate the sound to the level 
noted above. It shall be supplied with a flexible, seamless, 
stainless steel exhaust connection as well as with all internal 
pipe work. A rain cap will be supplied to terminate the exhaust 
pipe. These components must be properly sized to assure 
operation with minimum back pressure  and high sound when 
installed. The canopy should be finished in synthetic enamel 
paint incorporating rust inhibitors and aluminum sprayed 
silencers and spark arrestors to guarantee a superior and long 
lasting finish. 
 
d)  There should be carefully designe d inlet and outlet baffles / 
attenuators with corresponding weather louvers and bird mesh 
allowing sufficient air flow, for the set to operate even under the 
harshest ambient conditions whilst maintaining specified noise 
levels. Suitably sized blower shoul d be incorporated to meet 
total air requirement. 
e)  The temperature inside the enclosure should be suitable for 
human comfort. The temperature of exhaust line should not 
exceed the self ignition temperature of fuel gas. A  high  
temperature trip system (t o shut down the engine by cutting off 
fuel supply to the engine through the solenoid valve) with 
variable setting connected to a thermostatically controlled 
blower must be provided for eliminating excessive heat 
dissipated by the engine within the containe r. Suitable 

--- PAGE 104 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 104 of 190 
 
continuous on line Temperature Monitoring and Control System 
with Alarm and Shut down Mechanism should be provided. 
 
i)  When the concentration of gas inside the container reaches 
10 % of LEL of gas, audio visual alarm should activate and 
automatic preventive measure should activate to reduce the 
concentration of leakage gas. These preventive measures 
include switching on the thermostatically controlled 
blower/exhaust fan to disperse leakage gas or stoppage of 
gas leakage itself. 
 
ii)  When the concentration of gas inside the container reaches 
15% of LEL of gas (or any other suitable rating), the 
alternator main circuit breaker should trip automatically 
and subsequently the engine should be shut down 
instantaneously by automatic device (i.e., cut ting off power 
supply to the fuel solenoid valve.) 
 
f.  A separate exhaust fan of suitable size may be provided which 
can be manually switched on even if the thermostatically 
controlled blower stops / fails. 
 
g.  There shall be a provision of emergency shu tdown of the 
generating set (Prime Mover) from outside the enclosure. 
 
h.  The enclosure should have the sufficient space in and around 
the generating set to facilitate maintenance and operation of the 
set. 
 
i.  A panel viewing window should be provided to  facilitate visual 
monitoring of the equipment from outside. 
 
B.0   OTHER SYTEM OF THE POWER PLANT :  
 
B.1  Fire Protection System 
       Introduction 
The fire protection system for the proposed power plant is to provide for 
early detection, alarm, containment and suppression of fires.  An 
adequate fire protection system has been planned to meet the above 
objective and all statutory and insurance require ment of LPA.  A 
multitude of systems will be provided to combat various types of fires in 
different areas of the plant and all such systems for various areas will 
form a part of a centralised protection system for the entire power plant.  
The complete fire protection system will comprise of the following.  
           
 Fire hydrant system (External and Internal) 
 Portable fire extinguishers 
 Gas leak detectors 

--- PAGE 105 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 105 of 190 
 
  
 Design Criteria 
The fire protection system will be designed to satisfy the following. 
 To provide facilities for fighting all types of fires that can occur in 
the plant. 
 To equip the plant for fighting at least two simultaneous fires.  
 To meet the basic minimum requirements of TAC/NFPA 
 
Codes & Standards 
The Fire Protection System will generally be designed in conformance 
with TAC/NFPA. 
 
System Description 
The various types of fire protection systems envisaged and the areas 
covered are as follows: 
 
Hydrant System       : Entire Power Plant  
Automatic Fire Detection &         : Control & Switchgear room, UPS 
room, battery room and other office 
rooms. 
 
Manual break glass fire alarm will be provided at strategic areas of the 
plant. 
 
Note: (i) A ring line is to be constructed all around the periphery of the 
plant, from which water for fire - fighting can be d rawn in case of fire. 
The hydrants are to be placed in this ring line. The ring line is to under 
pressure round the clock. For this adequate water storage arrangement 
for at least two hours of firefighting is to be arranged. A firefighting 
pump is to be provided near the entrance gate of the plant for energizing 
the ring line in case of fire.  
 
B.2 Effluent Collection and Disposal System: 
 General 
The waste collection and treatment system receives, segregates, and 
transfers all liquid waste streams to plant  water management and 
ensures conformance to the statutory government guidelines prevailing 
in the state. 
 
 
The power plant effluents are of the following two kinds.  They are: 
 Water Waste  
 Sanitary waste 
 
The effluent disposal system will consist of trenches, sumps/pit and 
pumps to collect the plant wastes and transport them for off -site 
disposal. In general, sump pumps will be submersible centrifugal type 
with adequate capacity as required. 

--- PAGE 106 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 106 of 190 
 
  Water Waste 
The plant water waste effluents are generated from the Service water     
shall be collected in a local pit before disposal through a dispersion 
trench. The pit should be constructed in such way that all the water 
including the rain water are drawn to the sump for further disposal. 
 
Sanitary Waste 
Sanitary waste from plant sewage and canteen will be allowed to soak in 
a septic tank and the overflow will be disposed off through a dispersion 
trench. 
B.3  Sewage Disposal 
 The Sanitary Sewage system will be conveyed through underground pipe 
lines by gravity and designed accordingly. Manholes will be provided at 
all bends, intersections and in straight stretches for more than 100 
metres long. Sanitary system within the buildings will be provided as per 
standards and connected to common sanitary sewage system. 
B.4 Air Pollution 
As per the Environmental Protection Act, stipulated by the central 
pollution control board, the criteria prescribed are: 
 
i) Nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions : 100PPMV @15%O2dry 
(Adherence with Nox levels mandated by the statutory authority 
shall be ensured) 
ii) Stack height  : As per CPCB norms   
iii) Green belt area : 10 feet through the 
periphery of the project 
site 
 
All the conditions mentioned above will be satisfied. The proposed power 
plant would use natural gas (NG) which is a clean fuel; it does not 
contain sulphur also.  Also there would not be any particulate matter in 
the flue gas.  In case of gas firing, ther e would not be any emission of 
sulphur dioxide and the only pollutants in the flue gas would be oxides 
of Nitrogen (NOx) and carbon monoxide.  The typical values of NOx in 
the flue gas with natural gas firing shall be 100 ppmv (15% O2 volume 
dry basis )  and shall be achieved by means of fine adjustment of air fuel 
ratio and combustion in the engines, through sophisticated PLC based 
control system .Adherence with Nox levels stipulated by the Statutory 
authority shall be ensured.  
 
Stacks as per CPCB norms h ave to be provided.  The fuel fired (natural 
gas) does not have any sulphur content and hence no sulphur pollutants 
will be present in the flue gas coming out of the stack.  
 
Adequate area for the green belt is provided in the power plant. 
 

--- PAGE 107 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 107 of 190 
 
Regular monitoring will be employed to constantly monitor the CO2 NOx 
and SOx constituents in the flue gas and in case of excess amount of 
any pollutant, the plant will be shut down. 
 
B.5)  Water Pollution  
The effluents from the gas engine based power plant would be from 
sanitary waste water. Notification issued by the Ministry of Environment 
and Forests department dated19.5.1993 specifies the quality of effluents 
permitted to be discharged from the plant. For Gas Engine based Power 
Plant, the category to be considere d would be under Inland Surface 
Water and the limiting values of the major effluents are: 
 
Suspended solids          - 100 mg/l 
Dissolved solids  - 2100 mg/l 
pH            - 5.5 to 9.0 
Oil and grease  - 10 mg/l 
 
The sewage / sanitary waste water will be le d to a septic tank provided 
with a soak pit / dispersion trench.  The treated water from ETP would 
be used for gardening and the sludge will be disposed as land fill. 
 
The quality of effluents would be such as to fully meet the requirements 
of Central Board for Prevention and Control of Water Pollution as well as 
Local Pollution Control Board‟s regulations. 
 
B.6)  Noise Abatement 
The stipulations of environment protection Act 1986 and state pollution 
control board to be followed strictly.  
 
The gas engine intake and exhaust systems will be provided with 
silencers for abating the noise.  The gas engines will be housed in 
acoustic container, which would considerably reduce the transmission of 
noise to the outside environment.  Generally there would not be any  
operators near the gas engines on a continuous basis.  However, 
maintenance personnel working within the gas engine building would be 
provided with adequate protection against noise. 
 
B.7)  Pollution Monitoring & Surveillance System 
A well – defined environmental monitoring program would be employed 
with trained and qualified staff who will monitor the ambient air as well 
as stack gas quality to ensure that the quality of effluent is maintained 
within the permissible levels.   
 
The main stacks of the engin es would be provided with suitable 
provisions in terms of sampling cocks for installation of on -line monitors 
for NOx, SOx and CO to monitor the flue gas quality from them on a 
periodical basis. 
 

--- PAGE 108 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 108 of 190 
 
The quality of water effluents from the plant would be perio dically 
analysed to ensure that effluents are maintained within the permissible 
levels of the minimum National Standards (MINAS)and the State and 
Central Pollution Control Boards regulations. 
 
C.0)   CIVIL JOB:  
The following Civil Jobs shall be required to be carried out by the 
Contractor:  
 
1.  Necessary Earth Filling at the proposed site. The indicative earth 
filling quantity may be taken from the contour map of the site. It 
may be noted that the Contour map is  enclosed for a guideline 
only, the actual quantity of earth filling is to be calculated by the 
Contractor depending on the site condition. 
 
2.  Construction of Boundary wall {3.6 meter brick wall + 0.6 meter 
overhang (Concertina coil)} around the peripher y of the site with 
provision of Gate. 
 
3.  Construction of Security Control Room with four (4)  nos. of 
Security Watch Tower at the corners of the site. 
 
4.  Construction of Approach Road with necessary Peripheral Road 
inside the Power Plant. 
 
 5.  Necessary RCC Pad Casting/ CC mattressing for placement of Gen 
Set and other equipments. 
 
 6.  Construction of Shed over Gen Set and other equipments. The size 
of the shed should be designed to place all the Generating Sets 
inside the shed. The Gap between the gen erating sets should be 
sufficient to maneuver for working around the individual 
Generating Sets. The length of the shed should also be sufficient 
to prevent rain water from entering the shed. The capacity of the 
Plant shall be upgraded to atleast 10 MW in near future, therefore 
the Generating Shed should also have a provision for expansion. 
 
 7.  Construction of Modular Houses for operators with provision of 
Latrine & Urinal. 
 
 8.  Providing Drinking Water facility. 
  
BROAD GUIDELINES FOR CIVIL & STRUCTURAL WORKS 
A. Planning & detailed design of all civil works shall be done as per 
relevant IS codes applicable for the site & area of the plant. 
Architectural, detailed sructural  and working drawings for the 
purpose of construction; detailed drawings for internal/external 
electrification & plumbing; detailed planning of internal roads & 

--- PAGE 109 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 109 of 190 
 
landscaping shall be submitted by the contractor for OIL‟s 
approval prior to execution. 
  
B. Structures, facility supports, painting etc. 
1. Wind Load :      
Design of structures & buildings for wind load shall be as 
per relevant IS & other codes. 
2. Seismic Load :     
Design of structures for seismic load shall be as per 
IS:1893 part I 2004.  
3. Soil Data  :      
Bearing capacity of soil shall be considered as per Geo -
technical report of Soil Investigation  already furnished. 
4. Design and construction of pile foundations if required 
shall be carried out as per relevant IS & other codes.  
5. Minimum depth of foundation for all structures shall be 
from the Finished Grade Level (FGL) where cutting has 
been done and shall be from the Natural Grade Level (NGL) 
where filling has been done at respective location, for 
achieving the required FGL.  
6. The effect of ground water table shall be duly considered 
while designing the structures.  
7. Minimum grade of concrete used for various types of 
structures, shall be M20. 
8. Finished floor level should be 450mm above the Finish 
Grade Level(FGL) which ie 200mm abov e existing plant 
level ic caller top level of well-59 (water disposal well). 
9. The cement to be used shall be Ordinary Portland Cement 
(OPC) conforming to IS:269 or Portland slag cement 
conforming to IS:455.  
10. Usage of in-house developed software packages shall not be 
permitted. Only STAAD -III/ STAAD PRO or any other 
standard software shall be used for analysis and design of 
the structures.  
11. Overhead tanks shall rest on independent stagings. 
12. All bricks shall be kiln burnt of class designation 75. 
13. All steel structures etc. shall be constructed & fabricated in   
accordance with relevant IS codes. 
14. All structures shall be thoroughly cleaned of all dirt, 
grease, rust and mill scale as per IS:1477 (Part -I) - 1971. 
Removal of rust and scale shall be preferably by powe r 
driven wire brushes. Area, which become inaccessible after 
assembly, shall be painted before assembly after cleaning 
the surfaces as described above. The surfaces shall be 
perfectly dry before painting.  
 
Wherever shop primer painting is damaged, the surfaces 
shall be thoroughly cleaned and touched up with the 

--- PAGE 110 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 110 of 190 
 
corresponding primer. Site painting shall not be done in 
frosty or foggy weather or when humidity is such as to 
cause condensation on the surface to be painted. 
 
Unless otherwise specified, all structures shall be painted 
with one coat of red oxide zinc chromate conforming to 
IS:2074-1979 as primer to be applied at shop. For all 
structure second coat of primer shall be applied at site 
after erection. A ll structures shall be given two coats of 
finishing paints of approved quality and colour over primer. 
The under coat shall have different tine to distinguish from 
the finishing coats.   
15. A note shall be mentioned in all the relevant drawings, 
clearly speci fying that the foundations and supporting 
structures have been designed considering the Hydro -test 
weight of the Vessels/ Facilities / Equipment. 
 
C.2)   Equipment foundations 
 
C.2.1 RCC foundations for vibrating equipment e.g. Gensets, engines, 
pumps shall satisfy the following requirements: 
1. The minimum grade of concrete to be used shall be M20. 
 
2. Minimum reinforcement as per requirements of IS:2974 shall be 
provided unless required otherwise by design. 
 
3. The soil stress below foundations under dead loads shall not 
exceed 80% of the allowable soil bearing capacity for static loading. 
 
4. Foundations shall be so designed that natural frequency of the 
foundation system shall not resonate with the following:  
 
 Operating speed of the motor / engine 
 2 x Operating speed of the motor / engine 
 Critical speed of the motor (for centrifugal pumps). 
 
5. Natural frequency of the foundations shall preferably be +/ - 20% 
away from the above mentioned frequencies. However, amplitudes 
of vibration of the foundation block shal l always be checked to be 
within permissible limits. 
 
6. Amplitudes of vibration shall be less than values specified by the 
equipment manufacturer. If not specified, provisions of IS:2974 
shall be followed. 
 
7. The foundation and its superstructure shall be sepa rated from 
adjacent foundations and platforms. Clear air gap shall be 
provided in superstructure to avoid transmission of vibrations to 

--- PAGE 111 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 111 of 190 
 
adjacent structures. Special note shall be given on the drawing in 
this respect and suitable details shall be shown as required. 
 
8. Foundations shall not rest on previously back -filled or sensitive 
soils. 
 
9. When several foundations for similar equipment need to be seated 
on a common raft, the computation for vibration shall proceed 
assuming that each machine foundation is independent of others 
by breaking up the raft into sections corresponding to separate 
foundations.  The design value for the permissible amplitude of 
vibrations may be increased by 30 percent. 
 
C.2.2 Civil Finishing Work 
1. All the exposed surface of the RCC work viz. column, beam, slab, 
terrace (chhajja) etc. shall be plastered with 6 mm thick 1:4 
cement mortar.   
 
2. All the internal brick work shall be plastered with 15 mm thick 1:5 
cement mortar.  
 
3. All the external work shall be plastered with 20 mm thick 1:5 
cement mortar. 
 
4. Rolling shutters, wherever required, shall be used 18 SWG rolling 
shutter with adequate locking arrangement. 
 
5. Steel window shall be provided as per IS specification.  
 
6. Standard steel/ decorative fluse doors shall be provided to meet 
the specific requirement.  
 
7. All internal plastered surfaces shall be distempered with oil-bound 
distempers (two coats) on top of priming coat with cement primer. 
Before distempering, surfaces shall be smoothened with plaster of 
Paris. 
 
8. All external plastered surfaces shall be painted with three coats of 
water-proof cement paint (considering  the first coat as a primer 
coat). 
 
9. All the steel & wooden surface shall be painted with two coats of 
synthetic enamel paint over a coat of primer. 
 
10. Floors of buildings for Installation Manager, Plant Management 
Control Room and Administrative building shall be of marble tiles.  
 
 

--- PAGE 112 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 112 of 190 
 
C.2.3 Site Grading 
1. Actual site grading layout shall be developed by the contractor 
based on the levelling philosophy. Site grading shall also include 
micro grading after erection/construction of equipments and 
structures. All th e trees, tree roots and vegetation etc. shall be 
grubbed up and removed from the site. However, all benchmarks 
established by OIL, if any, shall be protected. All statutory 
requirements shall be complied before clearing the 
vegetation/trees. All the unwanted existing structures, if any, shall 
also be dismantled/demolished. 
 
2. If required, the borrow earth for filling up of site shall be arranged 
by the contractor anywhere outside the terminal limits at his own 
cost. The right of way, cost of royalties etc. fo r the borrow areas 
shall be taken care of by the contractor himself. The contractor 
shall furnish the characteristics of the good earth to be utilized for 
filling and the location of the borrow areas for OIL‟s review and 
approval. Quality and characteristi c of soil shall be as per 
standard specification. 
 
3. All unpaved open areas shall be suitably graded and sloped 
towards the drains. Grading the area shall be done by cutting and 
filling based on the relevant survey details, indicative layout and 
the leveling philosophy. 
 
4. Cutting area : 
 Thoroughly rolled and compacted as per standard practice. 
5. Filling area : 
 Compacted in layers not exceeding 30 cm doosey to achieve 
minimum 90% of max. laboratory dry density as per IS:2720. 
 
6. Grading shall be done with the following slopes : 
 General site grading : 
 
i) 1 in 500 - In the areas where facilities are located 
ii) 1 in 1600 - Open area. 
iii) 1 in 200 - During micro-grading 
 
7. The slope of earth beyond the grading plant shall be 1.5 (H) : 1 (V). 
The Finished Grade Level (FGL) shall be at least 200 mm above 
existing plant level ic caller top level of well -59( water disposal 
well). 
 
C.2.4 Roads, shoulders & site finish and Pavements 
1. Roads shall be provided as per approved general arrangement  and 
at other places wherever required for movement of vehicles, access 
of trucks/tenders, approach to storage, plant and loading gantry 
areas and various units/facilities, unloading area, product  

--- PAGE 113 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 113 of 190 
 
movement etc. The road layout shall be developed indicating the 
road top levels, road width etc. keeping in view heavy vehicle 
forward/backward movement and placement. The carriageway 
width of all the roads shall be 4.5 M. The roadway width shall be 
6.5 M which includes side berm of 1M width on either side. 
 
2. Specifications of roads shall be 
 150 mm thick granular materials (compacted) 
 150 mm thick W.B.M. with 65 mm graded stone (compacted) 
40 mm thick bituminous surface with 25 mm down graded 
broken stone. 
 
3. Roads shall be designed considering the following required : 
* Camber   1 in 50 
* Radius of Curve  12 meters wherever possible. 
* Ruling gradient  1:30 
 
4. Road cross-sections shall be designed based on the maximum load 
envisaged and based on the filled up s oil. Characteristics and the 
design calculations shall be furnished for review by OIL. The sides 
of the road embankments shall have either brick pitching with  
cement mortar or turfing as per directive of OIL representatives. 
 
5. RCC/CC/Bituminous pavements s hall be provided wherever 
required within the plant area. RCC pavements shall be in panels 
of 150 mm thick of grade M20 concrete. If demanded ramp on 
both sides for entry and exit should be provided. 
 
C.2.5 Storm Water Drainage 
Storm water drainage system in the plant shall consist of a well designed 
open surface drain network so that all the storm water from the plant is 
efficiently drained off without any water logging. The storm water 
drainage shall be designed for uncontaminated surface water run off. 
The pavement in the unit/ equipment area shall be suitably sloped 
towards drain for collection of rainwater in the drains  around the 
equipment area. The entire storm water network shall be so designed to 
discharge the entire storm water of the plant to the  nearby drain/nallah 
running outside the plant area. The bed level of the drain at the disposal 
point from the terminal shall be fixed such so that there is no back flow 
from main drain. 
 
C.2.6 Ditches & drains 
Contractor shall select various types of ditches in the plant so as to have 
an economical ditch layout, based on the guidelines given below. Drains 
shall be provided along the roadside. In any block normally three sides 
should have rectangular drain and on e side trapezoidal main drain. 
Secondary drains if required shall also be provided and connected to the 
main drain along the roadside. The drains shall be covered with suitable 

--- PAGE 114 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 114 of 190 
 
cover/grating wherever required for safety/statutory or operational 
requirement. 
Construction 
Rectangular Ditches: Brick masonry with cement plaster/ RCC  
M15 Trapezoidal:PCC M15/RCC M15 in Cement mortar 
Sizing of Ditch 
Design of drain shall be done as per Manning‟s formula 
 
* Minimum velocity in ditch  : 0.6 m/Sec. 
* Maximum velocity in ditch  : 2.5 m/Sec. 
* Minimum depth    : 200 mm 
* Minimum rectangular drain width : 300 mm 
*      Main rectangular drain width  : 500 mm 
      Main Trapezoidal drains Top width (min) : 750 mm 
                                       Bottom width (min.)   : 500 mm   
Slops 
* Trapezoidal drains   : 1:1000 min 
* Rectangular drain    : 1:500 min 
 
C.2.9 Culverts 
Storm water drains, pipes, cables etc. shall cross the road by suitable 
pipe culverts or box culverts. Selection of the type of culverts and signing 
of culverts shall be carried out by the Contractor. Material of 
construction of culverts shall be as below : 
 
Pipe culverts    : RCC pipe class NP3 as per IS:458 enclosed in PCC/ 
RCC as per strength requirement (Min. size – 350 MM) 
Box Culverts : RCC construction (Min. M20) 
 
Contractor shall furnish the design calculations for the storm water 
drainage. While furnishing the layout of storm water drainage contractor 
shall also furnish the flow diagram for indicating the flow in drains, 
culverts etc. Excess serviceable/unserviceable material after utilizing the 
above stated work shall be disposed off by the contractor to locations 
outside the terminal battery limits after obtaining all necessary 
approvals from Govt./Local authorities. 
 
C.2.10 Electrical/ Instrumentation Trenches, Cables and Road Crossings       
The contractor shall identify the requirement of 
 
 RCC cable trenches to be provided in the plant area. 
 Buried/brick masonry cable trenches 
 Cable crossing at roads. 
 

--- PAGE 115 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 115 of 190 
 
RCC/brick masonry cable trenches shall be with pre-cast cover designed 
to sustain the maximum load envisaged. Buried cable trenches shall be 
constructed as per sound Industrial practice/ standards. At crossings, 
electrical trenches shall be constructed below the instrum ental trenches 
wherever, storm water drains crossing (if unavoidable) cabling has to be 
taken preferably above the drain with suitable arrangement/over cable 
tray. Cable crossing at roads shall be either with group of RCC pipes 
(minimum dia 150 mm class NP -2 conforming to IS:458 encased with 
PCC M15). Clear cover over top of crossing to FGL shall be 600 mm. In 
case of less cover RCC encasement shall be provided. 
 
C.2.11  Electrical Cable Trenches 
These shall be made in RCC leak proof type construction, with  pre-cast 
covers adequately designed against loads as envisaged at respective 
location, suitable provisions shall be kept for insert, sleeves, slope etc. 
Entry and exit points shall be sealed to prevent rodent and animal entry. 
D.0)   Construction Facilities:: The following construction facilities are to be 
arranged by the Contractor during the construction of the plant :  
 
Construction Water 
During Construction the water required for construction purposes and 
also for domestic consumption shall be organized by the bidder. 
 
Construction Power 
During construction activities at site, power supply at 415V and 240 V 
have to be organized by the bidder. 
 
Temporary facility will be used for construction stores/offices and will be 
constructed by Bidder. Detail layout of the construction facility will be 
decided based on the construction plan of the plant area. 
 Roads and Drainage 
Within plant area, two types of roads will be constructed – one for double 
lane traffic and the other for single lane traffic. The road around the 
Main Plant area will be of the double lane traffic, while the rest of the 
Plant area / Switchyard roads will be of the single la ne traffic. Roads 
having double lane will be designed for medium traffic density and those 
with single lane will be designed for light density traffic. During the 
construction phase of the plant, road would be built with crushed 
aggregate base over granula r sub base. Two layers of bituminous 
concrete would be laid on top of base course at the completion stage of 
the plant. All roads within the plant area will be provided with precast 
concrete kerbs on both sides and the top will be 100mm above road 
level. All roads, pavements and parking areas will be provided with cross 
and longitudinal slope to convey surface run off. 
 
A network of open drains will be provided to carry the surface runoff 
which would run along the sides of the roads and lead to main storm 

--- PAGE 116 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 116 of 190 
 
water pipe line made with precast R.C. concrete pipe. Final discharge 
will be done to nearby natural drain. 
     
Size of drains will be designed to cater surface runoff corresponding to 
maximum intensity of rainfall expected during the life of the project, and 
slopes will be determined to avoid any silting. 
     
Reinforced concrete culverts or concrete pipe culverts will be provided at 
rail / road crossings. 
     
All buildings will be provided with plinth protection all around with slope 
towards side drains beside it. Building side drains will be connected to 
area drains by either open drains or combination of open drain and 
underground pipes.   
 
Note : The above are the salient point of requirement during the 
construction phase. In general all the requisite including manpower and 
materials required during the construction of the plant are to be 
arranged by the Contractor at his own cost. The secur ity of the man and 
equipments including Company‟s material if any deployed during the 
construction phase of the plant shall be Contractor‟s responsibilities. 
The accommodation of the manpower deployed during the construction 
phase of the plant shall be arranged by the Contractor at his own cost. 
 
E.0)   QUALITY CONTROL  
In order to ensure that the power plant is completed in time and 
performs at the expected level throughout its operating life, adherence to 
a high standard of quality will be ensured during all phases of project 
execution from the initial design stage till  commissioning and take over. 
All necessary features required for trouble free operation and 
convenience of maintenance would be taken into account at the initial 
stages itself in the respective Contractor/EPC Contractor‟s basic 
engineering, detailed desig ns and drawings. During the engineering 
stage, the Contractor/EPC Contractor‟s design and drawings will be 
checked by the Owner‟s Engineer in order to ensure compliance with the 
specified quality requirements and good engineering practice. The 
Contractor/EPC Contractor will also be required to submit an overall 
quality plan covering specified quality requirements, manufacturer‟s 
standard quality assurance procedures and statutory requirements.  
Separate quality plans will be finalised with the respective 
Contractor/EPC Contractor for both shop manufacturing activities and 
site activities.  
 
In order to physically ensure that the quality of equipment and systems 
supplied to the project are as per the approved quality plans, critical 
items of plant will be ins pected by the Owner‟s Engineer and / or the 
Project Company both at the manufacturing stage (stage inspection) and 
at the time of final shop performance tests, where applicable. For other 

--- PAGE 117 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 117 of 190 
 
items, the suppliers will be required to submit shop test certificat es, 
which will be reviewed by the Owner‟s Engineer to ensure compliance 
with stipulated technical requirements.  
 
All site works will be subjected to quality surveillance in order to ensure 
high standard of quality of the complete power plant.  The quality  
control measures proposed to be adopted by the Project Company 
/Owner‟s Engineer would include:  
 
 Establishing procedures for quality control including non -
destructive testing requirements at site, monitoring and ensuring 
quality assurance of site works. 
 
 Ensuring adherence to codes governing site work.  
 
 Ensuring that the materials used for site works comply with the 
required technical specifications and that they have undergone the 
requisite shop tests and have been found fit for use. 
 
 Overseeing the respective Contractor/EPC Contractor‟s work in 
ensuring that the plant is constructed/ erected design alignments 
and grades are in accordance with the drawings and 
specifications. 
 
 Approving corrective actions taken by the respective 
Contractor/EPC Contrac tor in case any of the works are not in 
accordance with approved designs and specifications. 
 
 Ensuring modifications, design, construction erection procedures 
required to be changed due to unforeseen conditions at site, are 
resolved expeditiously with the respective Contractor/EPC 
Contractor by sound technical solutions. 
 
INSPECTION AND TESTING FOR Equipment: 
a) Generating set 
All the routine tests as per IS and load tests of the alternator and 
the control panel shall be witnessed by OIL‟s Engineer at OEM 
works. The routine test of the alternator will include the following 
minimum tests/measurements:  
 
1.  Measurement of winding resistances for generator armature, 
field, exciter armature and exciter field. 
2.  Measurement of insulation resistance (before and after HV 
tests) for generator armature and field, exciter armature and 
field. 
3.  High voltage (HV) test. 
4.  Phase sequence test. 
5.  Voltage regulation test. 

--- PAGE 118 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 118 of 190 
 
6.  Vibration measurement. 
7.  Measurement of noise level. 
8.  Overload test. 
9.  Measurement of open circuit and short circuit 
characteristics. 
 
All the routine tests and load tests of the panel shall be witnessed 
by OIL engineers at manufacturer‟s works. The routine test of the 
panels will include the following minimum tests/measurements: - 
 
1.  Physical checks & Operation check of all components 
2.  HV tests 
3.  Insulation tests (before and after HV tests). 
 
The complete unit of alternator along with control panel shall be 
inspected and tested at manufacturer‟s works / factory by a te am 
of OIL‟s Engineers prior to dispatch. Amongst others, all routine 
tests of the alternator and control panel shall be witnessed during 
the inspection. Intimation for inspection of complete unit must be 
sent to OIL at least 30 days in advance. 
 
All routin e tests of the alternator and control panel shall be 
witness during the inspection at respective manufacturer‟s works. 
Prior information is to be given to OIL.  
 
Any modification suggested during inspection shall be carried out 
by supplier at no additional  cost. Supplier shall affect dispatch of 
the unit to OIL, Duliajan only on receipt of OIL‟s dispatch advice.  
 
Inspection/testing charges, if any, shall be quoted separately 
which shall be considered for evaluation of the offers. To and fro 
fares, boarding/ lodging and other en -route expenses of OIL‟s 
Inspection team for carrying our inspection shall be borne by OIL. 
 
b) Other Equipments : 
All tests and inspections will be carried out at OEM works 
according to the approved quality assurance plan unless otherwise 
instructed by the company (OIL)  
 
ERECTION, TESTING AND COMMISSIONING OF THE POWER 
PLANT: 
11.0 INTENT OF SPECIFICATION 
This specification is intended to cover the broad scope and 
the minimum technical requirement of the system/  
equipment. 

--- PAGE 119 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 119 of 190 
 
 
12.0 Scope of services 
Contractor's scope shall cover furnishing of all labour, 
supervision, consumable materials, tools & tackle and services 
necessary for receiving, unloading, unpacking, storing, in -
plant transportation, intermediate handling, preassembly/  
assembly at site as required, complete erection, testing and 
commissioning of all items included in the entire power plant 
as specified in this Bid Document along with their associated 
various ancillary and auxiliary equipments, vessels, pumps, 
drives, lub rication system, associated tanks, integral system 
piping, fittings, valve accessories, electrical, instrumentation 
and control etc. 
 
Equipment, Material and Services to be provided by Contractor 
 
 12.1.1 Receiving of materials. 
 12.1.2 Unloading of materials from ships, rails, trucks and other 
means of transport carriages, clearing from port and customs, 
transportation from port to site. 
 12.1.3 In plant transportation/shifting of unloaded materials to 
storage area. 
 12.1.4 Proper stacking and storing of materials under Contractor's 
custody. Manufacturer's specific recommendation, if any, shall 
be followed during stacking and storing. 
 12.1.5 Checking of all materials with shipment list/consignment note, 
reporting for missing or damaged items, r epairing damages & 
cleaning before erection. 
 12.1.6 Maintaining proper record of the materials and place of storage 
for quick identification as and when required. 
 12.1.7 Issue of materials from stores and maintaining detail account 
of the same as required. 
 12.1.8 In plant transportation/shifting of material from stores to 
erection site including intermediate handling. 
 12.1.9 Final adjustment of foundation levels of chipping and dressing, 
checking location, elevation etc. of anchor bolts and grout ing 
of anchor bolts and base-plates. 
 12.1.10 Watch and ward to ensure security and safety of materials 
under the contractor's custody. 
 12.1.11Furnishing of residential accommodation to all personnel 
including erection labourer of the Contractor. 
 12.1.12 Daily transport for his erection personnel to and from site. 
 12.1.13 Construction of site offices and covered storages as required 

--- PAGE 120 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 120 of 190 
 
 12.1.14 Cleaning up of site during and after erection. 
 12.1.15 Pre-assembly at site after proper checking/overhauling, as 
required. 
 12.1.16 Erection and subsequent clearing/flushing as required, pre -
commissioning checking to ensure correctness of erection.  
 12.1.17 Testing and commissioning services as required. 
 12.1.18 The scope of work shall include all activities at site including, 
equipment foundation, placing of equipment on foundation, 
levelling & alignment, grouting of foundation, spacers, other 
miscellaneous minor civil work such as dressing/chipping of 
foundation surfaces as required, scraping, edge preparation, 
assembly & pre -assembly, inspection & testing by inspecting 
authority wherever required, refractories and insulation works, 
minor rectification, welding, grinding, cutting, site 
adjustments, ducting work and all other incidental activities. 
 12.1.19 The Contractor shall furnish all labour (supervisory, skilled, 
unskilled and administrative), all consumable materials, 
including all special electrodes/filters etc., transport vehicles, 
mobile cranes, hydraulic jacks, riggers etc. as necessary, all 
erection tools, tackle and equipment, precision levels including 
micro levels, dial and other gauges, surface plates, straight 
edges, special tools like vacuum cleaners, blowers, radiography 
and stress relieving equipment, pumps and other equipment 
necessary for hydro testing , compressed air testing and all 
other necessary implements in sufficient numbers as may be 
required for timely and efficient execution of the contract. The 
materials supplied shall be of the best quality, the specification 
and quality of which have to be approved by the Company 
(OIL)/Company (OIL)'s Engineer. 
 12.1.20 All skilled, unskilled labourers and supervisors during system 
cleaning operation, start -up, testing, commissioning of 
equipment and system shall be supplied by the Contractor. 
 
Supervision During Erection 
12.1.21The Contractor shall work as per guidance and directives from 
manufacturers/equipment supplier. The Contractor shall place 
sufficient number of competent supervisory personnel at the 
disposal of above erection engineers who shall work in close co-
operation and co -ordination with manufacturer's/equipment 
suppliers' engineers as applicable. No erection work by the 
Contractor shall be deemed to have been completed by them 
unless it has been approved by Company (OIL)/Engineer. 
However, ap proval shall not relieve the Contractor of his 
responsibility of correctness and soundness of workmanship 
and of other obligation under the contract. 

--- PAGE 121 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 121 of 190 
 
 
12.1.22 Notwithstanding that the contractor will work under the 
guidance of manufacturer's/equipment supplier's erection 
engineers, the Contractor shall have the overall responsibility 
in the supervision of Contractor's work. However, no work shall 
be started unless it is approved by the Engineer and/or waived 
by the Engineer. 
 
12.1.23 The Contractor shal l be required to provide, at proper time, 
the necessary supervisory engineers, supervisors and other 
supervisory personnel duly qualified and in sufficient number 
for transportation, erection, pre -commissioning and post 
commissioning check up, start -up, testing and trial operation 
of plants and equipment. 
 
The Contractor shall keep a competent representative who will be 
Resident Engineer and shall remain as 'In -charge' of contractor's 
worksite and also remain answerable to the Company (OIL) for all 
activities of the Contractor at site. Before his placement at site, the 
Contractor shall submit his bio -data to the Company (OIL) for his 
approval. After the Company (OIL) has given his approval in writing, 
the contractor should send the approved person to  site without 
delay. Contractor's representative now designated as Resident 
Engineer shall receive and comply with the directive from Company 
(OIL)'s Engineer. 
 
He must not absent himself from site without obtaining permission 
from Company (OIL)'s engineer or his representative. The Resident 
Engineer, shall supervise the work of all men of the contractor 
working at site. He shall work in complete harmony and co -
operation with Company (OIL)'s engineers and manufacturer's 
engineers working at site. All statut ory rules and labour laws 
prevailing in the area must be observed by the Contractor. All safety 
measures against occurrence of accidents must be taken effectively. 
Resident Engineer or any of the Contractor's supervisory personnel 
shall not be withdrawn without written permission of the Company 
(OIL). If any of the contractor's personnel is found unsuitable for the 
job, the contractor shall remove him forthwith and a suitable 
replacement shall be posted to site within a reasonable time. No 
compensation for withdrawal of unsuitable or unqualified person(s) 
from site or for posting suitable person(s) to site at any stage of the 
project shall be allowed by the Company (OIL). So the Contractor 
shall be selective in posting suitable persons. 
Sequence of Erection Work 
12.1.24 All packing cases and packages shall be opened in presence of 
the Engineer or his authorised representative. Timber packing 

--- PAGE 122 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 122 of 190 
 
cases shall be carefully opened to avoid damage to materials or 
timber. Nails and packing strips should be pulled out w ith 
suitable appliances and kept separately in a container and not 
thrown away at random. All timber of packing cases shall have 
to be sorted out and stored properly at a suitable place as 
directed by the Engineer. From time to time, packing 
materials, timber, nails and strips shall be delivered back to 
the Company (OIL) or otherwise disposed of as directed by the 
Engineer. 
The timber reclaimed from the packing cases or any other material 
shall not be used by the contractor for rendering facility in the 
erection work or any other job without prior permission of the 
Company (OIL). All timber and packing materials shall remain the 
property of the Company (OIL). 
12.1.25 Each material after stripping from boxes or received loose, 
shall be carefully inspected,  checked with shipping list and 
identified with erection drawing if necessary. Any short supply 
and/or damaged part shall be reported forthwith to the 
Company (OIL) in writing. The Contractor shall be completely 
responsible to make all necessary arrangemen ts, application, 
and follow procedure to process claim on underwriters, obtain 
replacement repair/rectify and modify as required on all such 
damaged/defective/lost equipment and material at no extra 
cost to the Company (OIL) in order to execute the work to  the 
satisfaction of the Company (OIL)/Engineer within the 
stipulated contract time. 
The parts shall be thoroughly cleaned, all rust removed, surface 
polished where required. Cleaned and polished surfaces shall be 
coated with approved anticorrosive medium where found necessary 
and stored with care ready for erection. Once the materials are 
inspected, the same shall be stored adequately protected from theft 
and deterioration or damage by rain, storm, dust, water, tampering 
by casual visitors or workers. The Contractor shall prepare and 
maintain stores, ledgers and bin cards for all materials in his 
custody. 
12.1.26 Carrying out all repairs to damages that might have occurred 
during transit and in subsequent storage and modifications & 
rectification work and replacement of all defective/lost parts, 
are under the Contractor's scope. 
12.1.27 Materials are to be handled either manually or with the help of 
Contractor's erection equipment and actually erected on 
foundation base as guided by manufacturer's site 
representative or as shown in their drawing. All the clearances 
are to be carefully maintained and the final alignment checks 
are to be properly recorded. Two such copies including the 
hand sketches are to be given to the Engineer for his check up 

--- PAGE 123 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 123 of 190 
 
and record. All hand machining or portable tool machining jobs 
as are found necessary for this work are to be carried out by 
the Contractor. All pre-assembly and sub-assembly work are to 
be carried out by the Contractor. All bolting and tightening, 
doweling and/or any  other work e.g. welding, gas cutting, 
testing including non-destructive testing are within the scope 
of this sequence so that the erection of plant is completed and 
made ready for start up and initial operation in all respects. 
Relevant ISI & other Nation al/International Codes are 
applicable in all these jobs. 
Erection 
12.1.28 Erection work shall be carried out in the manner and 
sequence as may be directed by respective equipment 
manufacturer and the Company (OIL)'s engineer. 
12.1.29 As erection proceeds, each assembled part before being boxed 
up with a view to erecting it finally, shall be inspected and 
approved by the concerned supervisor. Should any defect be 
found out during such inspection, the contractor shall make it 
good as per directives from manuf acturer and/or Company 
(OIL)'s engineer. 
12.1.30 Welding, post weld heat treatment & other non -destructive 
testing will be conducted by the Contractor as required by the 
code and as instructed by the Engineer.  Contractor shall 
arrange suitable stress reli eving equipment with automatic 
recording device. 
12.1.31 All necessary radiography will be included in the scope of work 
of the Contractor. Contractor shall furnish all instruments, 
isotopes, films, chemicals etc. for conducting radiography and 
other non-destructive tests. Necessary operators of all testing 
equipment shall be provided by the Contractor. Dark -room 
facilities with air -conditioners for storing and processing 
radiography film equipment, as necessary, shall have to be 
arranged by the Contractor. 
12.1.32 The equipment shall be placed on respective foundation or 
support, levelled and aligned with precision measuring 
instruments, checked for proper clearance between moving & 
stationary parts wherever applicable and grouted on the 
foundation. Final levelling and alignment shall be done after 
curing of grouting. 
12.1.33 All fabrication and engineering work incidental to erection, 
like scaffolding, structural framing for pre -assembly, transport 
and erection etc. shall have to be done by the Contractor at his 
own cost. The structural steel required for such work shall be 
arranged by the Contractor. Also, any fabrication work like 
cutting, grinding, welding, straightening, reaming, drilling, 

--- PAGE 124 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 124 of 190 
 
threading, fitting up etc. which in the opinion of the Engineer 
are incidental to the erection site shall have to be done by the 
Contractor. Any defect in the fabrication shall have to be 
rectified by the Contractor at his cost. 
12.1.34 All piping work shall be done as per certified drawings. The 
items of work to be done in piping erection have been detailed 
in specification for piping, valves and specialties. 
Inspection of plant  
12.1.35 After completion of erection and/or installations and before 
start-up, each plant and equipment and all its appurtenances 
shall be thoroughly cleaned and then, inspected in the 
presence of Company (OIL)'s engineer for correctness, 
soundness and completenes s of installation and acceptability 
for start up. 
12.1.36 All works to be carried out by the contractor and his sub -
contractors, if any, shall be subject to inspection by the 
Engineer as well as equipment manufacturers/supplier's 
representative. The work shall be carried out as per applicable 
specifications, codes of practice, drawings & instructions of 
Engineer/Equipment manufacture's representatives  , where 
applicable. The Contractor shall provide necessary facilities, 
instrument, personnel etc., for carrying out the inspection as 
above and shall comply with the  instructions given. Any work 
carried out by the contractor which does not conform to the 
specifications/ drawings/instructions of Engineer/equipment 
manufacturer's representative will be liable for rejection and 
the Contractor shall rectify/replace such work at his cost. 
12.1.37 A check list in triplicate will be furnished by the Contractor in 
advance wherein all items to be checked and necessary 
instructions will be listed. This list will be reviewed and 
approved by the Engineer. Inspection and checking s hall 
strictly follow this final approved check list.  On completion of 
the inspection and checking two (2) copies of the check list will 
have to be handed over to the Engineer.  The check list after 
checking will have to be jointly signed by the Contractor 's 
supervisor and the Engineer to ensure that all inspection and 
checking have been properly carried out.  However, such 
endorsement shall not relieve the Contractor from the 
responsibility in ensuring proper erection and cleaning. 
12.1.38 During inspectio n all clearance, alignment and important 
measurements and adjustments as may be directed shall be 
noted by the Contractor for future reference and guidance. Two 
(2) copies of such notes shall be delivered to the Engineer. 
 

--- PAGE 125 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 125 of 190 
 
Cleaning 
12.1.39 The Contractor shall observe strict cleanliness during 
execution of the work and shall be in possession of vacuum 
cleaner for cleaning the internals of machinery under 
installation. They shall check that all the finished surfaces are 
greased and covered, all pipes and du ct ends are covered with 
plastic or suitable type of cap during storage. 
12.1.40 The inside of all equipment shall be thoroughly cleaned before 
they are installed. 
12.1.41 Before boxing up, the Contractor shall examine carefully to 
ensure that no foreign material, such as welding rod ends, 
welding beds, metal chips, rope, working tools, etc. has been 
left inside any equipment or piping or duct. After installation 
of the complete plant, all pressure parts shall be flushed with 
steam, oil, or air as necessar y and ducts will be cleaned 
manually. 
Pre-commissioning Testing 
12.1.42 After alignment of all equipments, alignment tests shall be 
carried out by the contractor to check levelling, clearance, 
eccentricity etc. Measurement will be witnessed and 
acceptance will be certified by the Engineer. 
12.1.43Hydro-testing shall be conducted for all pressure parts after 
installation at required pressure. All necessary blanking 
arrangement necessary for such hydro -testing shall be 
furnished by the Contractor. 
12.4.44 After the hydrostatic test, the contractor shall carry out 
thorough flushing of all lines with water to ensure removal of 
foreign materials like welding rods, metal chips etc. to the 
satisfaction of Engineer. After the flushing of the lines, all the 
water shall be drained and the piping shall be blown with air for 
drying the cleaned surface. 
12.1.45 Cleaning sequences and the temporary arrangements for the 
same shall be developed by the Contractor. All the materials 
like piping, valves etc. shall be provided by the Contractor and 
also the installation and dismantling of the temporary 
arrangements shall be carried out by him. 
12.1.46 All instruments necessary for these tests shall be supplied by 
the Contractor and calibrated before test as per code. 
12.1.47 The Contractor shall make necessary changes & corrections 
without any extra cost as may be felt by the Company 
(OIL)/Engineer to meet the guarantee & other technical 
particulars. 

--- PAGE 126 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 126 of 190 
 
12.1.48 All electrical actuators and pneumatic/hydraulic actuator 
shall be er ected, aligned, adjusted and finally set to the 
satisfaction of the Company (OIL). This include adjustment and 
setting of torque and limit switches. 
Start Up, Initial Operation 
12.1.49 Following the satisfactory completion of inspection, checking 
and cleaning of a unit, the plant will be placed in test run. 
During this period, all adjustments and repairs, as required, 
shall be made by the Contractor as per the instruction of 
Company (OIL )/Equipment supplier. The plant may be 
shutdown, if necessary, to carry out such adjustments and 
repairs. On completion of satisfactory Start up & Initial 
operation, the plant will be placed under Reliability Run. 
On completion of erection and pre -commissioning checking and 
cleaning, each equipment and sub -system will be sequentially 
placed on trial run along with protective and safety provisions in 
service. 
12.1.50 Prior to Operability Run, checks will be carried out for 
ascertaining the following:- 
Proper installation of the drive & equipment on the foundation. 
Proper alignment of drive and the equipment. 
Proper connection of piping, valves, instruments and other 
fittings to the equipment. 
Freeness of the rotors of drives & equipment. 
The healthiness of interlocks & protections for the equipment. 
Any other feature applicable to the equipment. 
All labours for starting, trial operation, repairs and adjustments 
shall be supplied by the Contractor. 
Checking & testing of equipment shall be done as per 
manufacturer's instruction manuals. 
All valve/damper drive motors shall be thoroughly checked and 
tested. These checks shall include:- 
Insulation resistance. 
Rotating parts to be turned by hand to see that they are free. 
Checking, filling and charging of lubricants. 
After installation of the drive motors in position, all the 
necessary adjustments for torque switch, limit switch, position 
indicators shall be carried out. 
After completion of erection, all checks and trial runs as 
specified elsewhere in this specification shall be carried out. 

--- PAGE 127 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 127 of 190 
 
13.0 SAFETY REGULATIONS 
13.1  Safety to Man & Machine is of paramount importance to the 
company (OIL). Hence utmost care has to be taken for safety 
while carrying out any job by the LSTK Contractor. A  Health, 
safety & Environment (HSE) Policy is already in place with 
the Company (OIL) which is followed in all activities of OIL. A 
copy of Company’s HSE policy will be handed over to the 
LSTK Contract for under -standing and guidance during 
execution of the Contract. The Contractor sha ll ensure that 
all International & local safety regulations are complied 
with during construction & commissioning activities at site. 
All necessary preventive measures & adequate first aid 
facilities shall be provided by the Contractor. 
All safety norms as  specified by the relevant regulation should be 
strictly followed. All equipment to be used in the specified 
hazardous zones shall be suitable for use in such zones. LSTK 
contractor shall be solely responsible for obtaining permission 
/cleared from statuto ry authority.  All applicable approval should 
be obtained solely by the LSTK contractor in consultation with 
OIL. NOC from state Pollution control Board shall be obtained by 
the contractor on behalf of Company (OIL). 
 
13.2  When going to or from the place of work in the plant, only the 
prescribed walkways, paths or cross -overs shall be used. 
Railroad crossing warnings shall be heeded. 
13.3  Crawling on, over or under movable equipment shall generally 
be prohibited. 
13.4 All persons are to stay clear of lifts being made by overhead 
cranes. 
13.5 For overhead work, proper signs shall be placed below and, 
when conditions justify, a watchman shall be stationed to 
warn employees in the vicinity. 
13.6 Work on or about crane runways shall not be undertaken 
without the Engineer's permission. Whenever it is necessary to 
do any work on or above the crane runways, the Contractor 
shall furnish a lookout man to ride each adjacent crane cab 
with the operator and an additional flag man stationed on 
the floor. 
13.7 Only scaffolds which meet the requirements of any governing 
laws shall be used in the project. 
13.8 All necessary protections shall be taken while working on 
electrical equipment. 
13.9 All burning and welding equipment shall conform to, and be 
used in accordance with, regulations governing such 
equipment. No burning or welding shall be done at any place 

--- PAGE 128 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 128 of 190 
 
on the site until the location where such work is to be done, is 
approved. 
13.10 Good housekeeping conditions shall be observed at all times. 
13.11 All excavations shall be guarded with guard rails or be 
securely covered to prevent anyone from falling into them. 
13.12 Adequate fire protection shall be available before work 
proceeds. 
13.13 All warning signs shall be observed. 
13.14 Use of explosives shall comply with all regulations. 
13.15 Proper care shall be taken in the use of compressed air. 
13.16 The Contractor shall require his employees to wear hard hats 
at all times within the construction area and when they are in 
an area where they are in danger from falling objects. 
13.17 Goggles shall be worn whenever there is a possibility of flying 
particles or splashing corrosive fluid. 
13.18 When working around caustic or acid solutions, workm en 
shall wear gloves, goggles and protective shoes. 
13.19 The use of barrels, boxes, stacked tile or any other unstable 
support for working platforms is prohibited. 
13.20 When ladders are the means of access to a platform, they 
shall be firmly secured at top and bottom and the ladder rails 
shall extend at least one meter above the top landing. When a 
ladder cannot be secured, a man shall be stationed at the 
base. 
13.21 The contractor shall provide all the above personal protective 
equipment (PPE) to his pe rsonnel at site & shall ensure that 
the same are used by them. Otherwise, the Company (OIL)’s 
engineer shall not allow the contractor’s personnel to work 
at site and the contractor shall be considered to be 
responsible for stoppage of work due to his peopl e not using 
PPE. The cost of the P.P.E.s shall be borne by the contractor. 
13.22 Safety belts shall be used by men working in high places 
where no handrails or other guards are in place. 
13.23 Trenches shall be shored whenever sand or loose soil is 
encountered. Piled dirt shall be kept well away from the edges 
to reduce surcharge. 
a) All NEAR MISS incidents or accidents shall be dealt promptly as 
per the procedure given in ANNEXURE-C, FORM-A at last part of 
this section.  
 
 

--- PAGE 129 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 129 of 190 
 
13.24 Proper Treatment of the Injured 
a) All employees shall be instructed by the Contractor to report 
immediately for treatment in case of any injury, no matter how 
trivial. 
b) The Contractor shall ensure that proper treatment of injuries 
is immediately available either at work site or in the form of 
constantly available transportation to a source of such treatment. 
c) The Contractor shall ensure that stretchers are available near 
all areas where men are working and that the location of stretchers 
is well marked. 
d) The contractor shall do all arrangement towards medical 
treatment owning to any accident or illness of the employees of the 
contractor. Expense towards the same shall also be borne by the 
contractor. 
13.25 The Contractor shall be solely responsible for the 
dissemination of all safety  regulations including those 
written here, those promulgated by the Company (OIL) and 
those dictated by good practice, and shall ensure that all his 
employees and those of his sub -contractors are conversant 
with same. 
13.26 Safety audits during construction stage shall be conducted 
by a team comprising of the site Engineer of the contractor, 
safety officer of the Company (OIL). Any recommendations of 
the safety audit team have to be implemented immediately by 
the contractor. 
13.27 All lighting ci rcuits (except office lighting) shall be fed from 
a transformer of appropriate rating having 230 volts AC (ph 
to ph) as per DGMS guidelines. 
13.28 The Contractor shall accept that the Company (OIL) shall not 
be liable or responsible in any manner for compe nsation or 
otherwise for injury to or death of any workman 
engaged/employed by the Contractor and liability and 
responsibility shall rest solely with the Contractor. 
 
14.0 OPERABILITY RUN & PERFORMANCE TESTS 
14.1  Operability Run 
The duration of operability  Run of the complete Plant in the 
automatic position of control system under varying load shall 
be forty five  (45) days . 
The plant will be put on reliability run for one year when the 
Company (OIL) is fully satisfied that the offered Plant ha s 
been proven with regard to its safety. 

--- PAGE 130 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 130 of 190 
 
The total outage during the Reliability Run should not be 
more than twenty (48) hours with a single outage of maximum 
duration of six (6) hours. 
If the above limitation is not met, the entire Reliability Run 
Test shall be repeated. The test may also be terminated and 
rescheduled at the insistence of the Company (OIL), if in the 
Company (OIL)'s opinion, the nature or cause of a shutdown 
does not warrant continued testing. Similarly, the Company 
(OIL) may elect to acce pt a Test of shorter duration if, in the 
opinion of the Company (OIL), reliability has been adequately 
proven prior to a shutdown. If the Reliability Run is 
interrupted by shut down, the cause of which, in the opinion 
of the Company (OIL)/ Engineer, are no t within the scope of 
the Contractor, the test shall be resumed at the earliest, and 
the delivery dates and penalties provided for in this Contract 
shall be adjusted to the components for the delay. 
 If the Reliability Run is interrupted by shutdown, the c ause of 
which, in the opinion of the Company (OIL)/Engineer, are within 
the scope of the Contractor, the Contractor shall be allowed to 
resume the test under the same conditions and limitations specified 
above. However, no time extension shall be allowed i n the delivery 
dates and penalties provided for in this Contract. 
14.2 Performance Guarantee and Acceptance Tests 
After completion of satisfactory Reliability Run, the 
Contractor shall prepare the units for Performance/  
Acceptance Tests. The test shall be carried out as soon as 
possible on a mutually agreed date after successful completion 
of reliability run within which period no derating of the 
equipment performance will be permitted. 
 These tests shall be carried out b y the Contractor to meet the 
stipulated requirements in the specification as per the 
performance test procedure approved by the Company (OIL). 
In case of delay in carrying out the performance/acceptance 
test for reasons not attributable to the Company (OIL ), the 
Contractor shall be required to prove the specified performance 
guarantee without any derating/aging factor. 
The performance tests will be conducted in accordance with 
the ASME PTC code or any other international standard offered 
by the Contractor and accepted by the Company (OIL). 
 
15.00   CDM project:  
 Assessment of CDM eligibility based on the revised guidelines of 
UNFCCC.  

--- PAGE 131 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 131 of 190 
 
 Preparation of Project Concept Note (PCN) and Project Design 
Document (PDD) applying the latest methodology of UNFCCC as 
applicable for the project activity.  
 Approval of Project Concept Note and Project Design Document, 
and registration with UNFCCC 
 Scrutinizing of monitoring data and reports submitted  
with supporting evidence prior to submission to DOE for 
verification 
 Validation & Certification by Designated Operational Entity (DOE) 
and Endorsement by Indian Designated National Authority (DNA). 
 Transaction of CERs 
 Making a presentation of the project with Ministry of Environment 
and Forest (MOEF) -Govt of India New Delhi & UNFCCC as and 
when required.  
 Any other information / documentation required for successful 
completion of the CDM project 
 
16.0  Details Scope Of Work During Phase – II of the Contract: 
Phase II is for Operation and Maintenance of the power plant set up 
as per phase I above: Operation & Maintenance of the Installed 
Power House for the next Ten (10) years. The Operation and 
Maintenance of the Power Plant shall start immediately on 
commissioning of the Power Plant. 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, the following words and terms shall 
have the meanings specified below (other words and abbreviations that 
have well known technical or trade meanings are used in this Agreement 
in accordance with such recognized meanings): 
 
Annual Maintenance Plan: 
Each Annual Maintenance Plan shall show in as much detail, mutually 
discussed and acceptable to the Owner and the Contractor all relevant 
information relating to the anticipated maintenance of the Plant, on a 
month by month basis, during the relevant Maintenance Year including: 
 
(i)  Overall Budget statement; 
 
(ii)  Routine maintenance and I or repair activities; 
 
(iii)  Routine maintenance information, general maintenance data and 
other Plant data; 
 
(iv)  Information regarding the inventory and proposed procurement of 
spares, consumable items, chemicals etc., for maintenance of the 
Plant; 
 
(v)  Monthly and annual spares plan as per maintenance regime for 
meeting guaranteed performance; 

--- PAGE 132 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 132 of 190 
 
 
(vi) Staffing plans indicating the number and specialisation of various 
Service Engineers and other maintenance crew to be deployed at 
the Plant; 
 
(vii) Planned maintenance / repairs of pipe racks, supports, cable trays 
and their supports and platforms; 
 
(viii)  Training programs, if any; 
 
(ix)  Administrative activities with respect to maintenance of the plant 
including security ; 
 
(x)  Maintenance strategy and a description of various material sub -
contracts proposed to be entered into; 
 
(xii)  A description of any Change in Law affecting the performance of 
the Plant together with a breakup of any incremental costs 
associated therewith; 
 
(xiii) The Contractor's recommendations describing the actions 
necessary to ensure that the Plant comply with all applicable laws, 
Directives and Governmental Authorizations; 
 
(xiv)  Such other works and activities as are necessary for the 
Contractor to comply with its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
Bankruptcy: 
The occurrence of any of the following events: 
(a) the passing of a resolution by the shareholders of the Owner or the 
shareholders of the Contractor for the winding up of the Owner or 
the Contractor, respectively; 
 
(b)  the admission in writing by the Owner or the Contractor to the 
Competent Authority, respectively, of its inability generally to pay 
its debts as they become due; 
 
(c)  the appointment of a liquidator by Competent Authority in a 
winding up proceeding after notice to the Owner or the Contractor,  
as appropriate, and due hearing; or 
 
(d)  the making by a court of competent jurisdiction of an order 
winding up the Owner or the Contractor, respectively. 
 
Change of Law: 
Means the entering in force of any applicable law which has been 
promulgated after the date of the signature of this Agreement; or any 
reform, modification or revocation of any applicable law, in force on the 

--- PAGE 133 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 133 of 190 
 
date of signature of this Agreement; or the adoption of a new official 
interpretation of any applicable law, including rules and r egulations, in 
force on the date of the signature of this Agreement, which has been 
promulgated after such date. or the reform, modification or revocation of 
any official interpretation of any applicable law, including rules and 
regulations, in force on th e date of the signature of this Agreement, 
which has been promulgated after such date; or the issuance of 
resolutions or other administrative acts by a competent Governmental 
Authority. 
 
Competent Authority: 
Authority which has jurisdiction for appointment of liquidator in case of 
bankruptcy 
 
Confidential Information: 
As defined in this Agreement. 
 
Contractor's Invoice: 
A written document, the format of which will be mutually agreed upon, 
provided by Contractor to Owner for payment of the Maintenance Fee 
and any Extraordinary Expenses (All extra ordinary expenses have to 
have the prior approval of the Owner in writing) incurred by Contractor. 
 
Day: 
The 24-hour period beginning and ending at 06:00 hours 1ST. 
 
Deemed Availability (refer Exhibit C): In case the Owner advises the 
Contractor to shut down fully / partially any of the engine(s) 
 
(a)  due to any reason attributable to the Owner or 
 
(b)  due to a condition of force majeure or 
 
(c)  due to warranty or insurance repairs and 
 
the engine so effected sh all be deemed to have run during the affected 
hours at its Guaranteed Operational Level. 
 
In addition to above, hours of non -operation of the plant due to grid 
failure effecting evacuation of power from the plant, would be 
accounted as Deemed Generation. 
 
Effective Date: "Effective Date" means the date on which the plant is 
handed over to the Contractor for the purpose of this agreement. 
 
Environmental Laws: 
All applicable codes, laws, rules and regulations relating to actual or 
potential effect of the acti vities on and at the Plant contemplated by 

--- PAGE 134 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 134 of 190 
 
this Agreement on the environment, the disposal of materials, the 
discharge of waste water and chemicals, gases or other substances or 
materials into the environment, or the presence of such materials, 
chemicals, gases or other substance in or on the Plant 
 
Extraordinary Expense: 
Any expense or expenditure, incurred by Contractor in the performance 
of the Work and not covered in a budget that has been approved in 
advance by Owner, including but not 
limited to, (i) provision of additional maintenance services requested by 
Owner not covered by this agreement, (ii) the direct cost of subcontract 
labor, materials or maintenance services needed to perform the services 
under (i) above, (iii) expenses incur red under Change of Law (iv) 
expenses towards technical upgradation as advised by OEMs, and (v) 
any other item of expense occasioned by an approved directive from 
Owner. 
 
Euro: 
The lawful currency of European Union. 
 
Force Majeure: 
As defined here in. 
 
Fuel: 
Shall mean natural gas and start up fuel as may be required for the 
plant. 
 
Generation: 
Generation means Actual Units Generated + Deemed Generation 
 
Guaranteed Operational Level: 
Guaranteed operational level shall mean that the power plant shall be 
available for a minimum period of 8100 hours in a year @ 95% average 
minimum loading of each of the Gas Gensets at 49 Hz, so as to deliver 
131.6817 Million kWh per annum at the switch yard inlet subject to 
the site conditions. 
 
Hazardous Substances: 
"Hazardous substance" or "pollutant" or "contaminant" as defined in 
applicable Environmental Laws, including but not limited to any 
material designated as a "hazardous substance", "hazardous waste" or 
"waste" pursuant to the Governmental Rules or the regulations 
promulgated there under, or any other pollutant or substance which 
may be the subject of liability for costs of response or remediation. 
 
Machinery Breakdown (MBD): 
Machinery Breakdown shall mean and include breakdown of Crank 
Shaft, Engine Block, Connecting rod, Piston, Liner, Cylinder head, 

--- PAGE 135 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 135 of 190 
 
Flywheel, Coupling, Turbochargers, Alternators and Station 
Transformers, Power Evacuation Transformer(s) and associated 
equipment thereof, excluding civil works and piping. 
 
Mobilization Plan: 
A written plan, setting forth, among other things, anticipated staffing 
requirements and organization chart, purchases training, objectives 
and required actions by Contractor necessary to as sist with plant 
startup and preparation for various maintenance schedules / repairs, 
purchases etc. 
 
Month: 
A calendar Month according to the Gregorian calendar beginning at 
06:00 hours IST on the first Day of the Month and ending at 06:00 
hours IST on the first Day of the next Month. 
 
Maintenance Report: 
Report prepared by Contractor on daily and monthly for submission to 
Owner which shall include: 
 
(i) Plant and equipment availability status; 
 
(ii)  Extraordinary Expenses incurred in the year -to-date and for the 
preceding Month; 
 
(iii)  The Contractor's Invoice; 
 
(iv)  An accident/incident report; 
 
(v)·  Plant safety status; 
 
(vi)  Plant fire equipment availability and status of compliance with 
requirements; 
 
(vii)  Plant Environmental Compliance status; 
 
(viii)  A labor status report; 
 
(ix) Equipment maintenance status including any planned or 
unplanned stoppages; 
 
(x)  Spare parts, lube oil and consumables inventory levels; 
 
(xi) Monthly Maintenance Logs (maintained at site and reported on 
need basis); 
 
(xii)  Monthly reconciliation statements for the maintenance of the 
plant 

--- PAGE 136 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 136 of 190 
 
(xiii)  Account of fuel, lube oil, spares and consumables quantity receipt 
and consumption for the purpose of MIS and inventory keeping. 
 
(xiv)  Any other known I foreseen equipment condition which may 
adversely affect the technical and financial performance of the 
Plant as requested by the Owner. The report shall include 
supporting documentation and graphs (vibration analysis / 
condition monitoring reports etc) 
 
The formats for the reports shall be mutually discussed and agreed by 
Owner and Contractor within 15 days from the effective date. 
 
Maintenance Year or Year: 
The period from Effective date of the plant as defined in this agreement 
till the next 365 days (both days inclusive) or 366 days in case of a leap 
year and is concurrent with Operations Agreement signed on the even 
date.  
 
Maintenance Fee or Contractor's Fee: 
The fee, which Owner shall pay to Contractor for maintaining the Plant 
as detailed in Article 4 herein. 
 
Operator: 
Operator shall mean appointed by the contractor, to operate the Plant 
in terms of the Operations Agreement of even date. 
 
Owner's claims: 
The claims, which the Owner can make on the Contractor pursuant to 
this agreement 
 
Owner's invoice: 
A written document, the format of which will be mutually agreed upon, 
provided by Owner to Contractor exhibiting its claims on the 
Contractor, pursuant to this agreement, 
requesting payment.  
 
Owner's Representative: 
The individual designated by the Owne r, who shall have the 
responsibility and authority specifically delegated to such individual by 
Owner and made known in writing to the Contractor. 
 
Plant Manager: 
Contractor's representative at the site who shall have the requisite level 
of managerial and maintenance skill to lead a team of skilled / 
semiskilled personnel in maintenance of the Plant and with authority to 
direct and perform of the Work by Contractor. 
 
 

--- PAGE 137 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 137 of 190 
 
Prudent Utility Practice: 
means the practices, methods, equipment, specifications, and 
standards of safety and performance, as the same may change from 
time to time, as are commonly adopted by a significant portion of the 
independent power facilities in India similar to the Plant and which, in 
the exercise of reasonable judgment and in light  of the facts known at 
the time the decision was made, are considered good, safe and prudent 
practice in connection with the maintenance of such facilities and the 
applicable Laws and Permits. 
 
Rupee: 
The lawful currency of India. 
 
SBI  PLR: 
Primer Lending Rate of the State Bank of India for Medium Term 
Lending as notified from time to time. 
 
Term of the Agreement: 
The period from the Effective Date through the remaining term of this 
Agreement. 
 
Unit of Electrical Energy: 
Kilowatt hour. 
 
1.1 Rules of Interpretation. 
 
(i)   Defined terms include the plural as well as the singular. 
 
(ii)  Any reference to an Article or Exhibit shall be deemed to refer to 
an Article or Exhibit of this Agreement unless otherwise specified. 
 
(iii) The terms "hereof," "her ein," "hereunder" refer to the entire 
Agreement and not to any particular Article or other subdivision 
hereof. 
 
(iv) A reference to any Person or party includes its permitted 
successors and permitted assigns. 
(v)  A reference to any governmental agency or authority shall include 
any agency or authority succeeding to such agency's or authority's 
functions and capabilities.  
 
(vi)  The words "include," "includes" and "including" are not limiting. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 138 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 138 of 190 
 
ARTICLE 2: CONTRACTOR'S RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
2.1 General 
Contractor shall carry out all day -to-day as well as periodic scheduled 
and unscheduled maintenance activities for the Plant as set forth 
hereunder and ensure that the manpower deployed performs the Work, 
in all material respects, in a prudent and efficient manner and in 
accordance with 
 
(1) Manufacturers' and systems designers' specifications, the Annual 
Maintenance Plan for the Plant, the Maintenance Manuals and 
Administrative Procedure Manual. 
 
(2)  Prudent Utility Practices 
 
(3)  Contractor shall use all reasonable and practical efforts (a) to 
reduce Plant down time, (b) to optimize the useful life of the 
equipment of the Plant, (c) to comply with all applicable laws and' 
permits as applicable to the Contrac tor under this agreement for 
maintenance of the plant and (d) cause its subcontractors to 
comply with applicable labour laws and permits.  
 
(4) Schedule and carry out such maintenance as may be authorised 
by the Plant Manager, in co-ordination with Owner. 
 
2.2 Maintenance services: 
Contractor shall, for efficient maintenance of the Plant, inter -alia, 
provide the following routine, scheduled and unscheduled maintenance 
services: 
 
2.2.1 Establish a system for recording an inventory of spare parts, tools and 
tackles, equipments, consumables and supplies for the Plant 
maintenance. 
 
2.2.2 Prepare and submit to Owner the Annual Maintenance Plan for next 
year at least 60 (sixty) days before the end of each year. 
 
2.2.3 Prepare and record at the Plant accurate and u p-to-date maintenance 
logs, records and Monthly reports regarding the maintenance of the 
Plant, which Monthly reports shall detail repairs performed and status of 
equipments. All such records are to be kept for a minimum of sixty (60) 
months after the crea tion of such record or data and for any additional 
length of time required by regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over 
the Parties. Upon the expiration of such period, neither Party shall 
dispose of or destroy any such records without thirty (30) Days prior 
notice to the other Party. The Party receiving such notice may receive 
such records in lieu of such disposal or destruction by giving the 

--- PAGE 139 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 139 of 190 
 
notifying Party notice ten (10) Days prior to the expiration of the thirty 
(30) Day period.  
 
2.2.4  Recommend Plant modifications, capital repairs, replacements and 
improvements under change of law or otherwise and, at Owner's written 
direction, implement the same as an Extraordinary Expense, if not 
covered otherwise. 
 
2.2.5  Perform periodic overhauls or maintena nce required for the Plant in 
accordance with the recommendations of the manufacturers. 
 
2.2.6  Regularly update and implement an equipment repair and preventive 
maintenance program that meets the specifications of the equipment 
manufacturers and the recommendations of the equipment suppliers. 
 
2.2.7  Collect all Hazardous substance, contamination, discharge and wastes 
as per the requirements under the Environment Laws and place the 
Hazardous substance, contamination, discharge and waste at the 
earmarked place inside the Plant as per prudent utility practice.  
 
2.2.8 Perform duties as per Article 8.2.  
 
2.2.9  Assist the Owner to procure all requisite spare parts. 
 
2.2.10 Cause to handover the used parts I spares to the Owner. The owner will 
have ownership on such parts. 
 
2.2.11 Mobilise requisite skilled I unskilled manpower for routine, scheduled 
and unscheduled maintenance, if any. 
 
2.2.12 Employ and train personnel who will be qualified and experienced for 
maintenance of the Plant. 
 
2.2.13 Meet expenses and comply with all requirements under the Labour 
Laws, statues with regard to its employees. 
 
2.2.14 Appoint Power Plant Manager with requisite qualification and expertise 
as per the terms of this agreement. 
 
2.2.15 Provide necessary administrative support for maintenance of the plant. 
 
2.2.16 Develop and maintain training programs to train qualified persons for 
positions, if any, requiring special labor skills for maintaining the Plant. 
 
2.2.17 Take such other actions as are necessary to enable Contractor to timely 
perform its obligations. 
 

--- PAGE 140 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 140 of 190 
 
2.2.18 Carry out such other activity as be necessary or advisable to efficiently 
maintain the Plant.  
 
2.2.19  Liaison with Government I Municipal Authorities for Contractor's scope 
of services under this Agreement 
 
2.2.20 Provide technical engineering support for solving maintenance 
problems.  
 
2221  Cooperate in the provision of information to authorized representatives 
of Owner. 
 
2.2.22 Prepare and submit daily / monthly Maintenance Report as per terms 
of this Agreement.  
 
2.2.23 Maintain and Repair Mechanical, Electrical installation of the Plant and 
Structural repairs, including painting. Paining would mean minor 
painting of steel structures and painting of top portion of stack and its 
supporting structure to the extent required by present regulation of 
naval air base in the vicinity of the plant. 
 
2.2.24 Coordinate and manage procurement of spares from respective spare 
parts supp liers from Indian as well as foreign origin and arrange on 
behalf of the owner, clearances (including customs clearances), all 
payment towards applicable duties and taxes, transportation, transit 
insurance, reimbursable by owner at actual, for such spare parts. 
 
2.2.25 Ensure timely delivery/ receipt of spares of required specification and 
quantity from domestic and imported origin.. Arrange unloading of 
spare parts within plant premises. 
 
2.2.26 Coordinate with the fuel supplier for Fuel Supply for timely delivery and 
receive at site fuel of required specification and quantity. Cost of fuel 
shall be to Owner's account.  
 
2.2.27 Raise indent for lube oil requirement with sufficient advance notice to 
the Owner, coordinate with lube oil supplier, based on the purchase 
order released by the Owner for Lube Oil Supply, for timely delivery and 
receive at site the lube oil of required specification and quantity. Cost of 
lube oil shall be to Owner's account. Arrange unloading of lube oil 
within plant premises. 
 
2.2.28 Receipt, storage, issue and accounts at General Stores. Issue receipt, 
provide storage, record re -conciliation with budget and provide 
adequate security.  
 

--- PAGE 141 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 141 of 190 
 
2.2.29 Account of fuel, lube oil quantity and spares receipt for the purpose of 
MIS. This shall al so include reconciliation of receipt & consumption of 
fuel, Lube oil and spares and other consumables. 
 
2.2.30 Inform the owner, at least 60 days prior to expiry of any license, 
permits approval to maintain the Plant, copies of which have been 
provided to the Contractor. 
 
2.2.31 Arrange to procure, store and provide chemicals & consumables as 
required for maintenance of the plant. Cost of the same is included in 
Maintenance Fee. 
 
2.2.32 Arrange to provide / bring required tooling for maintenance. Cost of th e 
same is included in Maintenance Fee.  
 
2.2.33 Meet necessary office and allied expenses of the Contractor. Cost of the 
same is included in Maintenance Fee.  
 
2.2.34 Arrange gardening including the maintenance of green belt. 
 
2.2.35 Provide security for the Plant. 
 
2.2.36 Provide housekeeping of the Plant. 
 
2.2.37 Provide training to employees of Owner at plant site during the last 90 
days prior to the expiry or prior termination of this agreement in day -
today maintenance of the Plant, subject to the cap of 5 employees. 
 
2.2.38 Use the resources, procedures regarding know how, software in 
maintenance of the Plant (wherever required), soft and management 
skills for efficient maintenance of the plant and benchmarking of best 
practices with other similar installations in India and abroad.  
 
2.2.39 Maintain the office furniture, fixtures & office equipments as per 
prudent utility practice.  
 
2.2.40 Maintain the switchyard as per prudent utility practice.  
 
2.2.41 Provide minor repairs to the Plant civil works.  
 
2.2.42 Provide and maintain insurance in accordance with Articles 10.  
 
2.2.43 Assist in conducting Performance Guarantee tests as may be required 
for the plant every quarter of the maintenance Year as well as on expiry 
/ termination of this agreement to establish the guaranteed Plant 
output level at switchyard input, Gross He at Rate, and Specific Lube 
Oil Consumption.  
 

--- PAGE 142 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 142 of 190 
 
2.2.44 Act upon the requests by the owner, from time to time, with respect to 
the plant maintenance, as the situation warrants. 
 
2.2.45 Adhere to any instructions by Owner, if any, to comply with applicable 
laws, rules and regulations, as may be required for maintenance of the 
plant.  
 
2.2.46 Carry out functions more specifically: 
 
For any additional scope of work (such work shall be based on 
mutually agreed terms and conditions, and such terms &  conditions 
shall be decided prior to actual execution of work) other than 
mentioned above which is added to Contractor's responsibility, Owner 
shall compensate Contractor with additional fee for such additional 
scope, as may be mutually agreed upon.  
 
2.3  The Contractor shall settle claims made by Owner as per provisions of 
this agreement.  
 
2.4  The Contractor shall indemnify the Owner. 
 
2.5  Amongst / Apart from other exclusions as outlined in various parts of 
this Agreement, following are excluded from Contractor's scope: 
 
(a) Supply of natural gas and start up fuel for the plant. 
 
(b) Procurement / supply of fuel, lube oil, spares, raw water and 
drinking water.  
 
(c)  Reimbursement of expenses towards Fuel/ Lube / Water analysis 
/ stack emission analysis / noise level measurement.  
 
(d)  Liaising with Governmental/Municipal authorities for Owner's 
responsibilities under this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 3: OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
3.1 Owner's Responsibilities: 
Owner shall be responsible for the· following activities, each to be at 
Owner's expense unless otherwise expressly provided herein. 
 
3.1.1 Make payments to Contractor in accordance with Article 4 of this 
Agreement. 
 
3.1.2  Make payments to the Contractor towards the Extraordinary Expenses 
incurred and invoi ced by the Contractor and as already agreed by the 
Owner as defined in Article 1.  
 

--- PAGE 143 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 143 of 190 
 
3.1.3  Hand over the Plant to the Contractor for maintenance by the Contractor 
and continue to ensure access to the Plant without any hindrance for 
the period of this Agreement. 
 
3.1.4 Provide Contractor with policy directives from time to time; 
 
3.1.5  Provide drawings, specifications, diagrams and other information, as 
available, regarding the Plant that are required for the maintenance of 
the Plant including those furnish ed to Owner under Contracts by the 
Supply Contractor (s) who have supplied equipments for the plant.  
 
3.1.6  Be responsible, obtain and maintain in effect all government licenses, 
permits and approvals under statutory regulations necessary to 
maintain the Plant other than those permits required to be held by 
Contractor to permit it to perform its obligations and comply with all 
such statutory compliance as may be required for Contractor to carry 
out the maintenance of the above Plant.  
 
3.1.7  Dispose off all Hazardous Substance, contamination, discharge and 
waste generated by the Plant in accordance with applicab le regulations 
and law from the earmarked location / place, where the Contractor has 
placed such material;  
 
3.1.8 Indemnify the Contractor as per Article 7. 
 
3.1.9 Pay all taxes related to the Plant, such as sales tax, service tax, works 
contract tax impo rt and customs duties, if any, except for any taxes 
imposed on Contractor's net income and payroll taxes imposed on 
Contractor's personnel.  
 
3.1.10 Provide internal communications lines and other existing support 
facilities to the Contractor; if and as available;  
 
3.1.11 Designate Owner's Representative.  
 
3.1.12  Review in a timely fashion and not unreasonably withhold its approval 
of all items submitted by Contractor to Owner for its approval.  
 
3.1.13 Provide and maintain insurance in accordance with Article 10 hereof.  
 
EXHIBIT A - SCOPE OF WORK 
 
DIVISION 1 
 
MOBILIZATION ACTIVITIES 
Contractor shall perform the tasks set forth in this Division 1 (the 
"Mobilisation Activities") prior to the effective date, or as otherwise 
required herein: 

--- PAGE 144 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 144 of 190 
 
1.  Manuals. 
(a) Maintenance Manual : Within fifteen (15) days of Owner 
providing Contractor with drawings, design documents and 
required information, Contractor shall develop and submit for 
review by Owner an Contractor's standard maintenance manual 
setting ·forth writ ten maintenance procedures for the Plant (the 
"Maintenance Manual") 
 
(b) Administrative Procedures Manual. Within fifteen (15) days 
of Owner providing Contractor with drawings, design documents 
and required information, Contractor shall develop and submit for 
review by Owner an Contractor's standard Administrative 
Procedures Manual (the "Administrative Procedures Manual") 
providing such information as: (i) organization with respect to the 
plant and reporting procedures, (ii) correspondence and review 
procedures between the Owner and the Contractor, (iii) limits of 
authority, (iv) accounting, bookkeeping, and record keeping 
systems and practices with respect to inventories in the plant, (v) 
procedures for the issuance, implementation, and collection of 
Owner-issued directives relating to this Agreement and the 
Services, and (vi) procedures for maintaining a document control 
system. 
 
2.  Organization and Recruiting : Contractor shall develop 
organizational structures and prepare recruiting requirements for 
maintenance personnel, which are to be applied by Contractor 
during the Term of this agreement. Contractor shall implement the 
testing and selection of .candidates and provide for the training of 
newly recruited personnel, so as to assure timely completion of the 
required training before the Effective Date. 
 
3.  Designation of Power Plant Manager : Contractor shall designate 
a Power Plant Manager in accordance with the terms of this 
Agreement. 
 
4.  Spare Parts: Within fifteen (15) days of Effective Date, Contractor 
shall deliver to Owner a spare parts list, required for the plant. 
 
5.  First Year Maintenance Plan : Within fifteen (15) days from the 
Effective Date, Contractor shall prepare and submit for Owner's 
approval an Annual Maintenance Plan for the first Maintenance 
Year. The first Annual Maintenance Plan shall be prepared in 
accordance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement and 
shall set forth the anticipated maintenance, repairs, capital 
improvements, routine maintenance, procurement, staffing, 
personnel and labor activities, administrative activities, scheduled 
outages and all other work proposed to be undertaken by 
Contractor during the first Maintenance Year. 

--- PAGE 145 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 145 of 190 
 
6.  Power Generation Report:  Within fifteen (15) days from the 
Effective Date, Contractor shall develop and submit to Owner for 
its approval a power generation report form to be used in 
Contractor's daily I monthly I annual reporting to Owner. Owner 
shall promptly review Contractor's proposed form and may request 
in writing additions, modifications and deletions. The parties will 
then meet and agree upon a final power generation report form to 
be used by Contractor in its reporting procedures.  
 
7.  Tools: Within fifteen (15) days from the Ef fective Date, the 
Contractor shall bring any required tools, if necessary for 
maintenance of plant.  
 
8.  Personnel Mobilization : Personnel required for hiring, training, 
start-up and hand-over of the Plant shall be present at the Site at 
least ten (10) days prior to the Effective Date. 
 
9.  Standard Maintenance Procedures and MIS : Contractor shall 
establish Standard Maintenance Procedure within thirty (30) days 
from the Effective Date. Contractor shall establish management 
information system (MIS) that p rovides equipment history, 
inventory control of spare parts and consumables and routine 
maintenance aspects within thirty (30) days from the Effective 
Date. 
 
10.  Performance Guarantee tests: The Contractor will witness, assist 
and certify the Performance Guarantee Tests being conducted on 
the plant pursuant to the "Contracts" with suppliers of equipment. 
 
DIVISION 2 
POST START-UP SERVICES 
Contractor shall perform the tasks set forth in this Division 2 
throughout that portion of the Term of this agreement occurring after 
the Effective Date unless otherwise stated herein or in the Agreement: 
 
1. Personnel.: 
(a) Personnel: Contractor shall provide and make available as 
necessary, in accordance with the applicable Annual Maintenance Plan, 
all such personnel an d supervisors necessary and sufficient to perform 
the Services in accordance with the standards of performance set forth 
in this Agreement. Contractor's Maintenance personnel shall be 
properly trained and qualified in Maintenance of gas engine facilities 
generally, and that all Contractor personnel shall be competent in the 
duties to which they are assigned hereunder.  
 
(b)  Labor Laws: Contractor shall comply with all applicable labor and 
employment Laws and shall exercise control over labor relations in a  

--- PAGE 146 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 146 of 190 
 
reasonable manner consistent with the intent and purpose of this 
Agreement.  
 
(c) Collective Bargaining Agreements. Contractor shall retain sole 
authority, control, and responsibility with respect to labor matters in 
connection with the performance of the  Services. Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, Contractor acknowledges and agrees that it does not have 
the authority to, and shall not, enter into any contracts or collective 
bargaining agreements with respect to labor matters which purport to 
bind or otherwise obligate Owner or any successor of Owner. 
 
2.  Plant Maintenance : Contractor shall be responsible for the 
overall maintenance of the Plant in accordance with the standards of 
performance set forth in this Agreement. Contractor's responsibilities 
shall include, but not be limited to the following: 
 
(a) Hours of Operation: Contractor shall maintain and staff the Plant, 
twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week, in accordance with 
the Maintenance Manual, Administrative Procedures Manual and the 
Agreement.  
 
(b) Interface with Supply Contractors : Contractor acknowledges that 
for a period of time after the Effective Date, Supply Contractor's 
personnel may be present at the Plant to perform punch -list or 
warranty work or to continue to work to achieve Supply Contractors' 
performance guarantees. Contractor agrees to cooperate with Supply 
Contractors and to allow the Supply Contractors to schedule such work 
to the extent it does not 'interfere with Contractor's performance of the 
Services hereunder.  
 
(c) Troubleshooting: Contractor shall identify and troubleshoot all 
problems attendant to Plant equipment and ancillary systems and shall 
promptly take appropriate corrective action as is reasonably necessary.  
 
(d)  Technical Information : Contractor shall pr omptly provide all 
pertinent technical information and documentation on Plant equipment 
and ancillary systems to Owner as requested. 
 
(e) Implement standard Maintenance procedures and MIS: Contractor 
shall implement standard maintenance procedure and MIS a s per the 
requirements. 
 
(f)  Safety: Contractor shall perform the Services hereunder and 
conduct its maintenance at the Plant in compliance with all applicable 
Laws governing safety, and in compliance with a safety program to be 
submitted by Contractor fo r review by Owner within thirty (30) days 
after the Effective Date. Contractor shall designate an individual to 
implement its safety program.  

--- PAGE 147 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 147 of 190 
 
(g)  Tools: Contractor will bring tools required for maintenance of the 
plant as and when required during the term of this agreement.  
 
(h)  Warranty and insurance Claims: 
 
(i) Contractor shall promptly notify Owner, in writing, of any defect or 
other deficiencies i n the Plant discovered by. Contractor and, if 
requested by Owner, Contractor shall assist Owner in connection with 
asserting and prosecuting warranty claims against suppliers or vendors 
of parts, equipment, materials and services for the Plant. In 
addition, Contractor shall assist Owner in connection with any related 
claims against insurance companies for liabilities, or losses incurred in 
connection with the Plant or maintenance including, but not limited to, 
any warranty claims against Supply Contractor o r any of its 
subcontractors, suppliers or vendors. 
 
(ii) Contractor shall promptly notify Owner, in writing, if Contractor 
becomes aware of any conditions at the Plant which might reasonably 
be the basis for a claim or warranty enforcement action by Owner.  In 
the event Contractor determines that any repair required to be made to 
any equipment or other materials at the Plant may be subject to a 
warranty claim against a vendor or supplier of such equipment or 
materials, Contractor shall notify Owner in writin g thereof and shall 
make necessary repairs or otherwise proceed in accordance with 
Owner's instructions (or, in cases of an Emergency where Owner is not 
reasonably available to provide instructions, in accordance with 
Prudent Utility Practices). 
 
(iii) Any costs incurred by Contractor in connection with any (i) 
warranty work (ii) works/repairs covered by insurance, shall be 
reimbursed to the Contractor. 
 
3. Record Keeping and Reporting 
(e) Records and Logs. Contractor shall maintain and retain at the 
Plant all Plant Maintenance records, logs, maintenance reports and 
metering data. Such records shall include, but not be limited to, daily 
Contractor's logs, a record of all maintenance and repairs performed, 
emissions and compliance reports, equipment and instr ument 
calibration records, Fuel/lube / spares consumption records, and 
electricity production, consumption and "delivery records, as desired 
under prudent utility practice. Contractor shall also cooperate with 
Owner's accountants and auditors in the prepar ation of Owner's 
annual audited financial statements and the income tax returns of 
Owner and its shareholders.  
 
(f)  Annual Maintenance Plan. Contractor shall prepare and submit to 
Owner an Annual Maintenance Plan as set forth in this Agreement. 
 

--- PAGE 148 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 148 of 190 
 
(g)  Daily /Monthly /Annual Reports. Contractor shall prepare and 
submit to Owner a daily / monthly / annual report in accordance with 
the terms of this Agreement. 
 
4. Maintenance of the plant within the norms stipulated under 
environmental and pollution control guidelines, from time to time.  
 
5.  Other works and services as mentioned in this agreement. 
 
EXHIBITE 
 
PLANT DEFINITION 
The Plant consists of the following, including: 
 
 Equipments, tools, apparatus, machines, supplied under the 
"Contract", at Site and within the premise of Boundary wall and 
the approach road from NH49 to boundary walls. 
 
 Complete Civil, architectural, structural, superstructures, roads, 
boundary wall with gates, company name board and buildings 
construction and the green belt developed. 
 
 GEG sets and all allied auxiliary systems of the plant including 
but not limited to combustion exhaust system, Generator Control 
system, Fuel system , Radiator cooling system, Raw Water I 
Cooling supply system, Water treatment plant, Compressed Air 
system, Lubricating Oil system, Service and Portable Water 
system, Water treatment - RO plant, Effluent system, Fire 
protection system, Power House Ventilation system, Ventilation 
system in other buildings, Air conditioning systems, Lube oil 
storage and handlin g system, Chimneys with silencers and other 
mechanical systems within plant boundary walls.  
 
 Complete Controls and Instrumentation and Electrical system 
including but not limited to Medium Voltage System (11 KV), Low 
Voltage system (415V), High Voltage Sy stem (11 OKV), Balance of 
Plant Control system, Switchyard and Interconnection (110 KV) to 
TNEB line, Miscellaneous Electrical, LV and MV Switchgear, 
Generator Transformer, auxiliary transformer, Battery, Battery 
charger, all equipments located within switchyard, cable and cable 
trenches, GEG control system in control room and other electrical 
systems within plant boundary walls. 
 
PERSONNEL TO BE DEPLOYED DURING PHASE II OF THE 
CONTRACT: 
i)  The Contractor will have to deploy adequate manpower to carry 
out the required operations. The deployment pattern will be as per the 
contractor's discretion for all the required services except for the for the 

--- PAGE 149 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 149 of 190 
 
Operation and Maintenance of the Power house d uring which the 
deployment pattern has to be as per the following norm with the 
indicated  key personnel  : 
 
Minimum Numbers of Key Personnel Number on location per shift 
Working Hours 
 
1.  Plant Manager  : 1 : On call 24 Hrs 
 
2.  Mechanical Engr.: 3 Numbers: 1 number for maintenance crew 
:On call 24 Hrs 
                                                    : 2 Numbers for Operation crew 
on shift basis 
 
3.  Electrical Engr.: 3 Numbers      : 1 number for maintenance crew 
:On call 24 Hrs 
                                                    : 2 Numbers for Operation crew 
on shift basis 
 
4.  Electrician  : 3 Numbers          :1 number for maintenance crew 
On call 24 Hrs 
                                                   :2 Numbers for Operation crew 
on shift basis. 
 
5.  Mechanic : 3 Numbers           : 1 number for maintenance crew On 
call 24 Hrs 
                                                 : 2 Numbers for Operation crew on 
shift basis. 
 
6.  Electrical safety officer:           1 number for ensuring observance 
of safety measures specified as 
per CEA Regulations, 2010, on 
call, 24 Hrs.  
 
i)  The Plant Manager has to be present at site all the times and 
should report to Designated OIL‟s office a s and when asked for to 
receive instruction /resolving any issue on contractual obligation. 
 
ii)  The Plant shall be in operation 24 hrs a day all throughout the 
Contract Period. The personnel should be deployed in shift basis. 
The maximum hours a personne l can be deployed for works shall 
be 8 hours to maximum of 12 hours in a day only. The Contractor 
should plan their deployment pattern accordingly.  
 
The deployment pattern of the manpower for operation and 
maintenance section of the plant should be separate. The 
deployment pattern in a day in the plant should consist of 
minimum of two crews for operation of the plant (Operation Crew) 

--- PAGE 150 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 150 of 190 
 
in shift basis and minimum one crew for maintenance of the plant 
(Maintenance Crew)in general shift basis. The duration of a shift 
should be for a maximum of 12 hours in a day. 
 
(iii)  Minimum number of key personnel in an Operation crew shall 
consist of the following: 
 
- One number Electrical Engineer. 
- One Number Mechanical Engineer. 
- One number Electrician. 
- One number Mechanic. 
 
Minimum  number  of key personnel in a Maintenance crew shall 
consist of the following : 
-  One number Electrical Engineer. 
-  One Number Mechanical Engineer. 
-  One number Electrician. 
-  One number Mechanic. 
-  One number Electrical Safety Officer. 
 
The above is the minimum number of key personnel only in an 
Operation crew and a Maintenance Crew. The Contractor shall 
deploy additiona l skilled/semi skilled/unskilled personnel in 
addition to the above to carry out other works. 
 
In addition to the above crews, the Contractor should plan and 
deploy additional crews for top overhauling/major overhauling 
works/breakdown jobs etc. as and when required 
 
iii)  KEY PERSONNEL: The qualification and experience of the key 
personnel are to be as under: 
 
a.  Plant Manager: 
Should be of sound health and have at least 10 years work 
experience in Operation and maintenance of a Power 
Generation Plant. Out of these 10 years, at least 5 years 
should be in management level. 
 
Should be conversant with all aspects of Operation and 
Maintenance of a Engine Driven Power Generation Plant and 
should be capable to take independent decisions in case of 
emergencies. Plant Manager shall be responsible for 
operation and maintenance of the Power Plant. 
 
Qualification: Must be Engineering Graduate either in a 
Mechanical or Electrical Engineering Discipline. 
 

--- PAGE 151 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 151 of 190 
 
b.  MECHANICAL ENGINEER : Should have a degree in 
Mechanical Engineering or Diploma in Mechanical Engineer 
with minimum 3 years/ 8 years experience respectively in 
an Engine Driven Power Generation Plant. 
 
c.  MECHANIC   
Should have sufficient knowledge of operation and 
maintenance of a Engine Driven Power Generation Plant and 
its components viz. engines, and all other mechanical 
items/engines operating in an engine Driven Power 
generation Plant. 
 
Qualification: ITI or equivalent with 3 years experience as 
Mechanic in an Engine Driven Power Generation Plant. 
 
d.  ELECTRICAL ENGINEER: Should have Degree in Electrical 
Engineering with minimum 3 years experience in an Engine 
Driven Power Generation Plant . He should be confident in 
independently carrying out the fault finding analysis, 
rectification of fault, operation a nd maintenance of all the 
electrical items of an Engine Driven Power Generation Plant 
including the air conditioners. He must possess valid 
Electrical Supervisor‟s Certificate of Competency issued by 
State Licensing Board and should be conversant with 
Central Electricity Authority Regulation‟2010. 
 
e.  ELECTRICIAN: Must be diploma / ITI in Electrical 
discipline with minimum 5 yrs. / 8 yrs. Experience 
respectively in the operation and maintenance of an Engine 
Driven Power Generation Plant. He should be able to read 
circuit drawing, communicate, detect and rectify fau lts. He 
must possess valid electrical workman permit issued by   
State Licensing Board. Having Electrical Supervisor's 
Certificate of competency will be an added qualification. 
 
f.  Electrical safety officer : Shall be an Electrical engineering 
degree/diploma holder with at least ten/fifteen years 
(respectively) of experience in Operation & Maintenance of 
electricity generating plants. He must possess valid 
Electrical Supervisor‟s Certificate of Competency issued by 
State Licensing Board and should be conver sant with 
Central Electricity Authority Regulation‟2010. 
Note: 
a)  An undertaking from all the personnel as per Proforma 
“Undertaking from the Personnel” should be forwarded after 
deployment of manpower prior to mobilization. 
 

--- PAGE 152 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 152 of 190 
 
b)  The personnel deployed by  the contractor should comply 
with all the safety norms applicable during operation. 
 
c)  Medical Fitness : 
i)  The Contractor shall ensure that all of the Contractor 
Personnel shall have had a full medical examination 
prior to commencement of the operation of the Power 
House. 
ii)   A qualified and registered doctor shall conduct all 
such medical examinations in accordance with 
accepted medical standards. 
 
d)  Training Courses : 
i)  The Contractor shall ensure that all of the Contractor 
Personnel performing services hereunder shall have 
attended all statutory safety and operational training 
courses  required by applicable law and as is generally 
consistent with international industry practice and/or 
as otherwise required by the Company. 
ii)    The Contractor shall, if requested, forthwith produce 
valid and current certificates of completion or 
attendance for the Company's inspection. 
 
e)  Personnel should be well versed and trained in fire fighting, 
first aid administration, gas testing etc.  
(In case, the above training course for contractor's personnel 
is to be arranged by OIL, the contractor will be charged 
accordingly). 
 
f)  Plant Manager will operate normally from the Power House 
Complex only.  
 
g)  The entire skilled / semi skilled workman invo lved in 
carrying out electrical jobs should have valid electrical 
workman permit issued by state licensing board. 
 
h)  Contractor shall furnish bio -data of key personnel along 
with all supporting documents, certificates etc. for 
Company‟s approval prior to  deployment of Manpower for 
operation and maintenance of the Power house. The Bio -
data should be as per Profoma “BIO-DATA OF PERSONNEL”  
 
i)  The key personnel indicated above is the minimum number 
of required personnel only. Employment of personnel other 
than key persons shall be at the discretion of the contractor 
in line with normal Operation and Maintenance  practices of 
an Engine Driven Power Generation Plant. Contractor shall 
forward a complete list of all the persons with their job 

--- PAGE 153 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 153 of 190 
 
descriptions that they shall deploy to run all operations and 
maintenance of the Power house successfully. 
 
j)  On/off duty details of personnel should be submitted to the 
Company on quarterly basis. 
 
k)  The age of key personnel except Plant Manager should not 
be more than 50(fifty) years. However, OIL deserves the right 
to accept the personnel of above 50 years with good health 
conditions. 
 
l)  The contractor shall be responsible for arranging relief of 
personnel during vacation, statutory off days, sickness, 
leave etc. entirely at their cost. However, the relief personnel 
also must have the qualification and experience as indicated 
above. Moreover, the contractor will have to obtain prior 
approval from Company for the relief personnel of the 
contractor. 
 
m)  Company rese rves the right to instruct for removal of any 
Contractor's personnel who in the opinion of company is 
technically not competent or not rendering the services 
faithfully, or due to other reasons. The replacement of such 
personnel will also be fully at cost of the Contractor and the 
Contractor shall have to replace within Ten (10) days of 
such instruction. 
 
n)  During currency of the Contract, if the Contractor replaces 
his personnel prior approval is to be taken from the 
Company. The deployed personnel shoul d have the 
qualification and experience as indicated above. 
 
0)  All charges for personnel are included in schedule of rates. 
No. separate charges shall be payable for the personnel 
deployed. 
 
p)  Contractor should employ adequate number of authorised 
supervisors as per rule 110 of Indian Electricity rules, 1956 
having relevant experience of minimum 5 years and possess 
appropriate license(s). 
 
J.  SECURITY SERVICES : Security and safety of Contractors employees 
and Company‟s property under this Contract shal l be the responsibility 
of the Contractor. Contractor shall deploy adequate security personnel 
to safe guard the Power House Complex. Company may instruct 
deployment pattern of the Security Guards time to time in accordance 
with advise/direction from diffe rent statutory bodies/ govt agencies or 
organizations/Company‟s policy time to time, which Contractor should 

--- PAGE 154 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 154 of 190 
 
follow. In addition to the above, Company may also advise the 
Contractor for following norms for safety and security aspects, which the 
Contractor should follow. 
 
k.  CONTRACTOR'S PERSONNEL 
1  Except as otherwise hereinafter provided, the selection, 
replacement, and remuneration of contractor's personnel shall be 
determined by the Contractor. Such employees shall be employees 
solely of Contractor. Contractor shall ensure that its personnel will 
be competent and efficient.  However, the contractor shall provide 
details of experience, qualification and other relevant data of the 
personnel to be deployed for scrutiny and clearance by the 
company before t he actual deployment. The contractor shall not 
deploy its personnel unless cleared by the company. 
 
2  The Contractor shall have a base office at Duliajan  to be manned 
by competent personnel, who shall act for the Contractor in all 
matters relating to Contractor's obligations under the contract. 
 
3  Contractor's Personnel: Contractor shall provide all manpower for 
necessary supervision and execution of all work under this 
contract to company's satisfaction except where otherwise stated. 
The minimum number of key personnel to be deployed is 
mentioned in this document. 
 
4  Replacement of Contractor's Personnel: Contractor will 
immediately remove and replace any Contractor's personnel, who 
in the opinion of company, is incompetent, or negligent or of 
unacceptable behavior or whose employment is otherwise 
considered by company to be undesirable. 
 
5   In case Contractor replaces their manpower deployed under thi s 
Contract, prior approval for replacement is to be taken from the 
Company for their deployment. The experience and qualification of 
the key personnel shall be as per the clauses of this Contract. 
 
7.  Contractor shall deploy on regular basis, all category  of their 
employee required for economic and efficient operations and 
maintenance of the Power House in all aspects. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 155 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 155 of 190 
 
L.  FOOD, ACCOMMODATION, TRANSPORTATION AND MEDICAL 
FACILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR’s PERSONNEL/EMPLOYEES: 
1  Food and Accommodation of the Contractors personnel shall be 
arranged by the Contractor at their own cost. 
 
2  Transportation of Contractor's personnel will be arranged by the 
Contractor at their own cost. 
 
3  Medical Facilities: The Contractor shall arrange for medical 
facilities for their employees/personnel at Contractor's cost.  
 
Note : 
i)  The power plant shall be upgraded to 10 MW in future. All the 
equipment / civil works / electrical works etc required for up 
gradation of the power plant shall have to be ex ecuted by the 
contractors at the same rate, terms & conditions of the contract. 
The additional cost to be borne by the company (OIL). 
 
ii) O & M of the power plant after up gradation to  10 MW the 
contractor shall have to operate and maintain the plant without any 
additional financial implication to the company (OIL).  
 
4.0 DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCES TO BE SUBMITTED BY THE BIDDERS IN 
SUPPORT OF THEIR BIDS:  
 
The following documents are to be submitted by the bidders in support of their bids: 
i)  In support of the satisfactory  service record of the offered model of 
the generating sets in power generation application in Central/State 
PSUs or Govt organisation or Public/Private Limited and having logged 
minimum 3000 hours ( cumulative) or six mo nths of operation from its 
date of commissioning prior to the bid closing date of the tender : 
Relevant documentary evidence from the end user in support of the 
conditions mentioned should be enclosed with the bid failing which the 
bid shall be summarily rejected. 
 
ii) In support of the average Annual financial turnover of minimum                 
Rs. 23.42 Crores or USD 3.86 Million during the last 3(three) years ending 
31.03.13(for Accounting Year April-March) and 31.12.12(for calendar Year 
Accounting year), documentary evidence in the form of Audited Balance 
Sheet and Profit & Loss Account for the last three years ending 31.03.13 
or 31.12.12 as applicable should be submitted along with the technical 
bid. 
 
(ii.a) In case the Audited Balance Sheet and Pr ofit Loss Account are in 
currencies other than INR or USD, the bidder shall  have to convert the 
figures in equivalent INR or USD considering the prevailing conversion 

--- PAGE 156 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 156 of 190 
 
rate on the date on which the Audited Balance sheet and Profit and Loss 
Account is signed. 
 
Note: Relevant documentary evidence from the end user in support of the above 
should be enclosed with the bid failing which the bid shall be summarily 
rejected. 
END OF SECTION-II 
&&&& 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 157 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 157 of 190 
 
SECTION - III 
 
 
SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT 
 
 
1.0   DEFINITIONS:  
1.1 In this CONTRACT the following words and expressions shall have the 
meanings hereby assigned to them, except where the context otherwise 
requires. 
 
 
1.2 “THE COMPANY/OWNER/OIL” means Oil India Limited, a Government 
of India Undertaking having its registered office at Duliajan, Assam. 
 
 
1.3 The “ ENGINEER/ENGINEER-IN-CHARGE (EIC) ” means the person 
designated from time to time for supervision and liaison with the 
CONTRACTOR by OIL and includes those who are expressly authorised 
to perform on his behalf for operation of this CONTRACT. 
 
 
1.4 “CONTRACTOR” means _________________________________________. 
 
 
1.5 The “ WORK” mean and include all items to be supplied, things to be 
done and services to be provided and activities to be performed by the 
CONTRACTOR, pursuant to and in accordance with the CONTRACT, or 
part thereof, as the case ma y be, and shall include all extra, additional, 
altered or substituted items/things/activities/services as required for 
purpose of the CONTRACT. 
    
 
1.6 The “PERMANENT WORK” means works, which will be incorporated in, 
and form a part of the WORK to be handed over to the OWNER by the 
CONTRACTOR on successful completion of the CONTRACT. 
 
 
1.7 “TEMPORARY WORKS” means all works of temporary nature required 
in or execution, completion or maintenance of WORKS. 
 
 
1.8  “CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT ” means all appliances/equipment and 
things that are used in for the execution, operation and maintenance of 
the WORK or TEMPORARY WORKS.  
 
 

--- PAGE 158 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 158 of 190 
 
1.9 “CONTRACT DOCUMENTS ” means collectively the Tender Document 
with Designs, Drawings, Specification, Condition, Schedule of Q uantities 
and Rates, Letter of Acceptance and agreed variations if any, and such 
other documents constituting the tender and acceptance thereof. 
 
1.10 The “ SPECIFICATION” means all directions, the various technical 
specifications, provisions attached and r eferred to in the Tender 
Document, which pertain to the method and manner of performing the 
works, to the quantities and qualities of the works and the materials to  
 
be supplied under the CONTRACT for the WORKS, as may be amplified 
or modified by the OIL during the performance of CONTRACT in order to 
provide the unforeseen conditions or in the best interests of the WORKS. 
It shall also include the latest edition of relev ant Standard Specifications 
including all addenda/corrigenda published before entering into 
CONTRACT. 
 
 
1.11 The “DRAWINGS” means maps plans and tracings or prints or sketches 
thereof with any modifications approved in writing by the ENGINEER-IN-
CHARGE and  such other drawing as may, from time to time, be 
furnished to or approved in writing by the ENGILNEER -IN-CHARGE in 
connection with execution of the CONTRACT. 
 
 
1.12  The “ TENDER” means the proposal along with supporting documents 
submitted by the CONTRACTOR for consideration by the OWNER. 
 
 
1.13 The “PERIOD OF LIABILITY/PERFORMANCE LIABILITY PERIOD ” in 
relation to a WORK means the specified period of 1 (One) year from the 
date of COMPLETION CERTIFICATE up to the date of issue of FINAL 
CERTIFICATE during wh ich the CONTRACTOR stands responsible for 
rectifying all defects that may appear in the WORKS executed by the 
CONTRACTOR in pursuance of the CONTRACT and includes warranties 
against Manufacturing/Fabrication/Construction defects covering all 
materials plants, equipment, components supplied by the CONTRACTOR 
and WORKS.  
 
 
1.14  “SITE” means the lands and other places on, under, in or through which 
the PERMANENT WORKS are to be carried out and any other lands or 
places provided by the OWNER for the purpose of the CONTRACT. 
 
 
1.15  “NOTICE IN WRITING OR WRITTEN NOTICE ” means a notice in 
written typed or printed characters sent (unless delivered personally or 
otherwise proved to have been received by the addressee) by registered 

--- PAGE 159 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 159 of 190 
 
post to the latest known private or business address or registered office 
of the address and shall deemed to have been delivered. 
 
 
1.16  “DAY” means a day of 24 hours from midnight to next consecutive 
midnight, irrespective of the number of hours worked in that day. 
 
1.17  “WORKING DAY” means any DAY, which is not declared to be holiday or 
rest day by the OWNER. 
 
 
1.18  “WEEK” means a period of any consecutive seven days. 
 
1.19 The “ CONTRACT PRICE /VALUE OF CONTRACT ” means the sum 
accepted or the sum calculated in accordance with the pric es accepted 
in the BID and/or the CONTRACT rates as payable to the CONTRACTOR 
for the full and proper performance of their contractual obligations. 
 
1.20 “PLANT” means all the facilities; infrastructure and works that are 
stipulated for creation/setting up /construction/laying/ completion/ 
integration vide Section-II) of this tender document. 
 
1.21  “COMPLETION OF THE PROJECT ” shall mean putting the entire 
“PLANT” into operation. 
 
1.22 Subject to sub -clause 1.2 3 below, “ COMMISSIONING OF THE 
PROJECT / THE PLANT” shall mean “COMPLETION OF THE 
PROJECT” plus successful Operability Run/Performance Guarantee Test 
Run of the plant with „DESIRED PERFORMANCE LEVEL” from the day 
of its being put into operation / “DATE OF COMPLETION OF THE 
PROJECT”. In the event of malfunctioning/defects during the Operability 
Run / Performance Guarantee Test Run of the plant with its “DESIRED 
PERFORMANCE LEVEL”, the “DATE OF COMPLETION OF THE 
PROJECT” shall mean the day of rectification of such 
malfunctioning/defects etc. and “COMMIS SIONING OF THE PLANT” 
shall mean successful Operability Run / Performance Guarantee Test 
Run with its “DESIRED PERFORMANCE LEVEL” post the day of 
rectification of such malfunctioning/defects. 
 
1.23 “DESIRED PERFORMANCE LEVEL” of the PLANT means successful 
Operability Run. 
 
2.0 STATUTORY NOTIFICATIONS /PERMISSIONS /APPROVALS 
/CLEARANCES /CERTIFICATIONS : 
2.1 The Contractor shall be responsible for notifying and obtaining 
permissions / approvals / clearances from such statutory authorities / 
Govt. agencies / Govt. departments as stipulated vide prevailing acts/ 

--- PAGE 160 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 160 of 190 
 
laws/bye-laws/rules/regulations, for setting up th e plant / execution of 
the project and movement of his men, material & equipment. 
 
2.2 The Contractor shall be responsible for obtaining Central Mining 
Research Institute‟s (CMRI‟s) certification of all electrical items for use in 
hazardous areas/zones and  approval of the same from Directorate 
General of Mines Safety (DGMS). The Contractor shall also be responsible 
for obtaining such necessary certification and approval of all other 
items/equipment as may be required vide provisions of prevailing 
acts/laws/bye-laws/rules/regulations or otherwise, in absence of such 
provisions; to cater to sound industry norms. 
 
 
2.3 The Company shall issue all necessary letters &  guarantees. If required, 
the Company‟s representative shall accompany/assist the Contractor for 
facilitating the process. The ultimate responsibility of completing the 
process and obtaining the permissions/approvals/clearances in time, 
subject to fulfilme nt of prevailing laws, shall however rest with the 
Contractor. 
2.4 Any delay in obtaining statutory permission / approval / clearances / 
certification or any social/socio -political factor shall not form a basis for 
extension in completion period. The Company shall not be responsible for 
any hindrance in the day-to-day work for such delay. 
 
2.5 Inspection and acceptance of the equipment/facility/work or a part 
thereof shall not relieve the Contractor from any of his responsibilities 
under the Contract. 
 
3.0 LABOUR LICENSE 
3.1 The Contractor, before starting the work shall obtain a license from 
concerned authorities under the Contract Labour (Abolition and 
Regulation) Act 1970, and furnish a copy of the same to the Company. 
Contractor shall also be responsible  for its validity and for complying 
with provisions of all applicable Act, Rules and Regulation in force at the 
locations of the site. 
 
4.0 LUMP SUM TURNKEY (LSTK) CONTRACT WITH OPERATION & 
MAINTENANCE (O&M) OF THE PLANT 
4.1 The entire work as per Scope of  Work covered under Terms of Reference 
& Technical Specifications (Section -Ii) of this tender document shall be 
treated as “LUMP SUM TURNKEY CONTRACT WITH OPERATION & 
MAINTENANCE OF THE PLANT” for the specified period. 
 
5.0 RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR 
5.1 The contractor shall be responsible for all that are covered in Terms of 
Reference & Technical Specifications (Section -II), Schedule of Rates 
(Section-IV), General Conditions of Contract (Section -I), Special 
Conditions of Contract (Section -III) and el sewhere expressed in this 

--- PAGE 161 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 161 of 190 
 
tender document and subsequently, stipulations of the contract 
agreement to be entered into between the Company & the Contractor. 
 
5.2 The Contractor shall bear all the cost in his quoted price towards 
mobilisation at site and dem obilisation including bringing in equipment, 
work force, materials, dismantling the equipment and clearing the site 
etc. 
 
5.3 The Contractor shall be solely responsible for making available all 
requisite construction equipment, special aids, cranes, transport 
facilities, tools, tackle and testing equipment and appliances for 
successful execution of the work. 
 
 
5.4 Preparing approaches and working areas for the movement and 
operation of the equipment, levelling the areas for assembly and erection 
shall also be the r esponsibility of the Contractor.  The Contractor shall 
acquaint himself with access availability, facilities, local labour etc. to 
provide suitable allowances in his quotation.  The Contractor may have 
to build temporary access roads to aid his own work. C ontractor shall 
not use materials issued by OIL, if any, for installation purposes for 
laying temporary lines, erection etc.  Misuse of materials will be 
seriously viewed and deductions at penal rates of landed cost of 
materials as purchased by the Company  and all additional overheads 
will be made from the Contractor‟s bills for such quantities that are 
misused. 
 
5.5 The Contractor shall take utmost care for not damaging or interfering 
with any Public Utility System, OIL‟s benchmarks, proximate facilities & 
operations during execution of the project. Any inadvertent damage / 
interference caused however shall be expressly repaired / restored to the 
original state by the Contractor at his own cost. 
 
5.6 The Contractor shall have to make his own arrangements for wat er, 
electricity etc required for construction & commissioning at his own 
cost. 
 
6.0  CONTRACTOR'S ITEMS 
6.1  Contractor shall provide contractor's items and personnel to perform the 
services under the contract as specified in this document. 
 
6.2  Contractor shall be responsible for maintaining at his cost adequate 
stock levels of contractor's items including spares and replenishing them 
as necessary. 
 
6.3  Contractor shall be responsible for the maintenance and repair of all 
contractors' items and will provide all spare parts, materials, 
consumables etc. during the entire period of the contractual period 

--- PAGE 162 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 162 of 190 
 
 
7.0 SET-OFF: Any sum of money due and payable to the Contractor 
(including Performance Security refundable to them) under this or any 
other Contract may be appropriated by OIL and set-off against any claim 
of OIL (or such other person or persons contracting through OIL) for 
payment of a sum of money arising out of this contract or under any 
other contract made by the Contractor with OIL (or such oth er person or 
persons contracting through OIL). 
 
8.0  OIL'S EQUIPMENT : Contractor shall assume the risk of and shall be 
solely responsible for, damage to and loss or destruction of materials 
and equipment or supplies furnished by OIL. In case there is a los s or 
damage to OIL's equipment for causes attributable to contractor, the 
contractor shall compensate OIL. 
 
9.0  WAIVERS AND AMENDMENTS: 
It is fully understood and agreed that none of the terms and conditions 
of the contract shall be deemed waived or amended by either party 
unless such waiver or amendment is executed in writing by the duly 
authorized agents or representatives of such party. The failure of either 
party to execute any right of termination shall not act as a waiver or 
amendment of any right of such party provided hereunder. 
 
10.0 WORK IN MONSOON & DEWATERING 
10.1 The execution of the work may entail working in the monsoon also. The 
Contractor must therefore cater adequately for such situations as may 
be required for the job and plan and execute the project in strict 
adherence to Implementation Schedule and according to the term and 
condition of the Contract. No extra rate shall be considered for such 
work in monsoon. 
 
10.2 During monsoon and other period, it shall be the responsibility of  the 
Contractor to keep the work site free from water at his own cost. 
 
11.0 Nil Custom Duty shall not be applicable against this tender. 
Indigineous bidders are to quote their Non-Deemed Export prices. 
  
 
12.0  CONFIDENTIALLY: 
Contractor agrees to be bound by professional secrecy and undertake to 
keep confidential any information obtained during the conduct of well 
operations, including, but not limited to, formations encountered, testing 
and surveying of the well. And to take all -reasonable steps to ensure the 
contractor's personnel likewise keep such information confidential. 
 
12.1  This obligation shall keep in force even after the termination date and 
until such information will be disclosed by company. 
 

--- PAGE 163 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 163 of 190 
 
12.2  Contractor shall handover to company all company's documents or 
drafts concerning operations carried out and which are still in its 
possession before transferring the Work over Unit to another sphere. 
 
12.3  Contractor shall forbid access to the Drilling/ Work over Unit to any 
people not invo lved in the well operations or not authorised by the 
company to have access to the Drilling / Work over Unit, however, this 
provision is not applicable to any Government and/or police 
representative on duty. 
 
 
 
13.0 PATENTS, RIGHTS, LIABILITY AND COMPLIANCE OF REGULATION: 
13.1 Contractor hereby warrants that the use or sale of the goods delivered 
hereunder will not infringe claims of any patent covering of such goods 
and Contractor agrees to be responsible for and to defend at his sole 
expense all suits and proceedings against COMPANY based on any such 
alleged patent infringement and to pay all costs, expenses and damages 
which COMPANY may have to pay or incur by reason of any such suit or 
proceedings. Final payment to the Contractor by the Company will not 
be made while any such suits or claim remains unsettled. 
 
 
13.2 The Contractor shall indemnify COMPANY against all third party claims 
of infringement of patent, trademark or industrial design rights arising 
from use of the Goods or any part thereof. 
 
 
13.3 For this purpose, the Company shall enter into a license agreement, if 
required, with the Contractor separately covering the forgoing over the 
period the equipment, software etc. are in actual use in the operations of 
the Company. 
 
 
13.4 The bidder shall submit format of such agreement envisaged in sub -
clause 13.3 hereof along with the bid. 
 
 
13.5 Contractor shall also protect and fully indemnify COMPANY from any 
claims from Contractor‟s workman/employees or their heirs, 
dependants, representatives etc. or  from any other person/ persons or 
bodies/companies etc. for any acts of commissions or omission while 
executing the Contract. 
 
 
13.6 Contractor shall be responsible for compliance with all requirements 
under the laws and shall protect and indemnify completely COMPANY 
from any claims/penalties arising out of any infringements. 

--- PAGE 164 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 164 of 190 
 
14.0  DEFICIENCY: The following penalties shall be applicable in this 
Contract: 
i)  FAILURE PENALTY : In the event of the contractor failure to strictly 
adhere in providing the minimum requirements of key personnel as set 
out in the Contract, the penalty shall be levied at the following rates. 
 
a) Failure to provide Plant Manager at the rate of 8% of the operating 
and maintenance day rate for each day of non-availability of the 
Plant Manager. 
 
b) At the rate of 5% of the Operation and maintenance day rate for 
each day  of non-availability of the either Mechanical Engineer or 
Electrical engineer or Electrical Safety Officer. 
 
c) At the rate of 3% of the Operation and Maintenance day rate  for 
the period of non -availability of each of the other key personnel 
apart from those mentioned above. 
 
 
NOTE: 
1.     The above penalty rates are applicable for the first seven 
days. In case more than one key personnel are not available at a 
time, penalties applicable for such personnel will be levied 
simultaneously. 
 
2.     Beyond seven days, the penalty will be levied at double the 
rates mentioned above for each day for non -availability of any key 
personnel. 
 
3.    Contractor will be paid for zero  rates if operation is 
suspended any reason attributable to the Contractor. 
 
4.  For the purpose of levying of failure penalty, the operation 
and maintenance day rate shall be calculated by dividing the 
Operation and maintenance cost of the corresponding y ear by the 
factor of 365 (Three sixty five). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 165 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 165 of 190 
 
 
 
ii)  LIQUIDATED DAMAGE FOR  DELAY IN COMPLETION OF THE 
POWER HOUSE: For delay in completion of the power house beyond the 
period as mentioned in the Contract, LIQUIDATED DAMAGE will  be 
applicable @0.5% per week of Total Capital Cost subject to maximum 
value of 7.5% of Total capital Cost. (excluding O&M ) 
 
 
 
iii)  LIQUIDATED DAMAGE FOR FAILURE TO GENERATE POWER : OIL 
shall enter into a Power Purchase agreement with a customer for selling 
of Power generated from this power house. In the power purchase 
agreement, tariff for the unit of power to be supplied to the customer 
shall be applicable. For failure to transfer power from the power house to 
the customer due to the reason attribu table to the Contractor liquidated 
damage shall be levied on the Contractor. This Liquidated damage shall 
be equal to the total tariff for the total unit of electrical energy not 
generated from the power house for the corresponding period for the 
reason attributable to the Contractor. The total unit of electrical energy 
not transferred from the power house to the customer for this period 
shall be the average of the electrical energy uplifted from the power 
house for the previous seven days. This total unit of electrical energy not 
generated from the power house shall be multiplied by the applicable 
tariff to arrive at the applicable liquidated damage for failure to transfer 
power.  
 
 
If the Contractor fails to generate power as per OIL’s requirement of 
minimum 5 MW capacity for which there shall be loss of revenue to 
the Company, the loss to the Company shall be recovered from the 
Contractor.  
 
If Power cannot be produced from the power house for any reason 
attributable to the Company during currency of the Contract, the 
Contractor should immediately notify the Company in writing.  
 
 
v) PENALTY FOR DEFICIENCY IN MAINTENANCE OF THE PLANT : The 
Contractor should strictly adhere to Maintenance schedule of the Plant. 
In case of deficiency in Maintenance schedule of the plant shall attract 
the following penalty:  
 
 In case of delay in carrying out the scheduled Maintenance of the 
Plant upto 6 (S ix) months shall attract penalty @ 10% of the 
Maintenance Cost of the Plant for that year. 
 

--- PAGE 166 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 166 of 190 
 
 
 In case of delay in carrying out the scheduled Maintenance of the 
Plant between 6 (Six) months to 12 (Twelve) months, shall attract 
additional penalty @ 10% of the  Maintenance Cost of the Plant for 
that year. 
 
 In case of delay in carrying out the scheduled Maintenance of the 
Plant beyond 12 (Twelve) months the Maintenance Cost of the Plant 
for that year shall be forfeited. This shall be in addition to the 
penalty @ 10% of the Maintenance Cost for that year  
 
15.0  DURATION: 
The rates, terms and conditions as incorporated in this Contract shall be 
applicable during the tenure of the Contract and will continue till the 
termination/completion the Contract. 
 
END OF SECTION-III 
&&&& 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 167 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 167 of 190 
 
SECTION - IV 
 
SCHEDULE OF RATES & PAYMENT 
 
Schedule of Rate: The Schedule of rate applicable in this Contract shall 
be as below: 
 
Progressive Payment Schedule: 
I .  Payment Upon Mobilisation: 
10 % of the Total Capital Cost subjected to furnishing equivalent bank 
guarantee as per the terms & conditions specified in the tender. 
 
II .  Progressive payments against competition of project milestone: 
Progressive payments shall be upto  a maximum limit of 70 % of the 
quoted price.      
 
 
 Sl 
No  
 
 
                    Work  
Progressive payment to be 
released ( percentage of quoted 
price against individual item)  
Maximum limit of 70 % of the 
quoted price ( excluding O & M 
charge)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   01 
Procurement of Natural Gas Engine Driven Generating set 
A  Upon receipt  of 01 no 2 MW  
Gas engine driven generating 
set at site 
12.5% 
B Upon receipt  of 01 no 2 MW  
Gas engine driven generating 
set at site 
12.5% 
C Upon receipt  of 01 no 2 MW  
Gas engine driven generating 
set at site 
12.5% 
D Upon receipt  of 01 no 1 MW  
Gas engine driven generating 
set at site 
12.5% 
E  Upon erection/installation   of 
01 no 2 MW  Gas engine 
driven generating set at site 
 5% 
F Upon erection/installation   of 
01 no 2 MW  Gas engine 
driven generating set at site 
5%  
G Upon erection/installation   of 
01 no 2 MW  Gas engine 
driven generating set at site 
5% 
H  Upon erection/installation   of 
01 no 2 MW  Gas engine 
driven generating set at site 
5% 
 

--- PAGE 168 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 168 of 190 
 
 
 
 Sl No  
 
 
                    Work  
Progressive payment to be 
released ( percentage of quoted 
price against individual item)  
Maximum limit of 70 % of 
the quoted price ( excluding 
O & M charge)  
 
 
 
 
       02 
Electrical Items & Illumination  
A  Upon receipt  of all 
materials & accessories at 
site  
60% 
       
B  Upon Erection / installation  10%  
 
03 
                                      Piping work  
A  Upon Progressive 
completion of all piping 
work  
 70%  
 
 
04 
Misc Mechanical  Equipment 
A  Upon receipt  of all 
materials & accessories at 
site ( e. g Compressor , Gas 
dryer/ booster plant , gas 
purification plant etc)  
 
60% 
 
 B 
 
Upon Erection / installation 
 
 10% 
 
 
05 
Firefighting system 
 
 A  
Upon receipt  of all 
materials &  accessories at 
site  
60 %  
 
 B  
 
Upon Erection / installation 
10% 
 
 
 
06 
Black start Generating Set 
A Upon receipt  of 01 no 125 
KVA  Gas Engine driven 
generating set at site 
60 %  
B Upon Erection / installation 10% 
 
 
07 
               Construction of water & effluent disposal system  
 
A  
Upon receipt  of all the 
materials related to water & 
effluent / sanitary disposal 
system 
60 %  
B  Upon Erection / installation 10% 

--- PAGE 169 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 169 of 190 
 
 
08 
                                 Fitting of Lifting facilities  
A  Upon receipt  of all the 
materials related to over 
head crane  
60 % 
B Upon Erection / installation 10% 
 
 
III)   10 % of the quoted Total Capital Cost (except Civil Cost) will be released 
after successful commissioning of the   power project after forty five days 
of operability run without any interruption.  
 
 
IV)    Payment on successful completion of reliability run:  
10 % of the quoted price (excluding O &  M charges) subjected to 
successfully completed the reliability run for one year of the  power 
project from the date of commissioning. 
 
 
V)  Payment on successful completion of  one year from completion of 
the reliability run:  
5% of the quoted price (excluding O & M charges) subjected to 
successfully completion of one  year from completion of the reliability 
run. 
 
 
VI)  Payment on successful completion of  two years from completion of 
the reliability run 
5% of the quoted price (excluding O & M charges)  subjected to 
successfully completion of two years from completion of the reliability 
run. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                    Work  
Progressive payment to be released ( 
percentage of quoted price against 
individual item)  
Maximum limit of 70 % of the 
quoted price (excluding O & M 
charge)  
Implementation of CDM project  
A Competition of work related to  
CDM project  
 
      70 % 
Painting of entire plant 
A Upon competition of work in all 
respects  
      70 % 

--- PAGE 170 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 170 of 190 
 
VII)  Progressive payment For CIVIL Cost: 
a)  Progressive payments shall be upto a maximum limit of 90 % of the 
quoted civil cost.  
 
Civil & structural Work 
Sl No 
 
 
Work  
Progressive payment to be 
released (percentage of 
quoted price against 
individual item)  
01 Upon land filling, 
development including 
grading & leveling as per OIL 
map  
15% 
02 Construction of boundary 
wall  
10% 
03 Construction of Security 
Control Room with four 
(4) nos. of Security 
Watch Tower at the corners of 
the site. 
 
10 %  
04 Construction of Approach 
Road with necessary 
Peripheral Road inside the 
Power Plant 
10 % 
05 Construction of Shed with 
foundation over Gen Set and 
other equipments 
15 %  
06 Construction of control room 
for operators with provision 
of Latrine & Urinal                  
( including fitting of A C ) 
10% 
07 Providing Drinking Water & 
industrial water facility(  
10% 
08 Development of Green belt 
area  
5% 
09 Mis Civil Work  5% 
 
a) 10 % of the quoted civil cost will be released after one year from 
the date of successful commissioning power project including forty 
five days operability run. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 171 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 171 of 190 
 
VI)  Schedule of payment: O & M : 
Schedule payment of O & M of the plant shall be released monthly upon 
successful operation & maintenance of the plant in strict accordance 
with Scope of Work (O & M) , in the manner as quoted by the contractor 
and subsequent agreed upon between the company & the contractor .  
             
The per day O & M  payment will be calculated based rate quoted in 
schedule of rate per annum divided by 365 days ( 366 days for leap year) 
.The O & M charges shall be applicable immediately after completion of 
the  operability run of The Power House as defined in the tender. 
 
 
 
Note :  
i) Force Meajure rate:  “force majeure” rate shall be 70 % of per day 
O & M Charge. 
 
ii) Receipt of an individual material shall be considered to be 
complete once the material is received at the Project site and all 
the relevant document as per terms & condition of the tender is 
submitted to the Company representative. Contractor to raise their 
invoices accordingly. 
 
iii) Commissioning of the plant will be considered to be complete 
when the plant shall successfully complete fo rty five days 
Operability Run without any interruption. 
 
iv) Reliability run of the plant will be start after successful 
competition of test run only. 
 
 
 
 
END OF SECTION - IV 
&&&& 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 172 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 172 of 190 
 
 
ANNEXURE - A 
INTEGRITY PACT 
  
 
Between 
 
Oil India Limited (OIL) hereinafter referred to as "The Principal" 
    
                                And 
 
( Name of the bidder  ).......................................hereinafter referred to as 
"The Bidder/Contractor" 
 
Preamble : 
The Principal intends to award, under laid down organizational 
procedures, contract/s for --------------------------------------. The Principal 
values full compliance with all relevant laws and regulations, and the 
principles of economic use of resources, and of fairness and transparency 
in its relations with its Bidder/s and Contractor/s. 
 
In order to achieve these goals, the Principal cooperates with the 
renowned international Non -Governmental Organisation "Transparency 
International" (TI). Following TI's national and international experience, 
the Prin cipal will appoint an external independent Monitor who will 
monitor the tender process and the execution of the contract for 
compliance with the principles mentioned above. 
 
Section 1 - Commitments of the Principal 
 
(1)  The Principal commits itself to take all measures necessary to prevent 
corruption and to observe the following principles:- 
  
1.   No employee of the Principal, personally or through family 
members, will in connection with the tender for, or the execution 
of a contract,  demand, take a p romise for or accept, for 
him/herself or third person, any material or immaterial benefit 
which he/she is not legally entitled to. 
 
2.   The Principal will, during the tender process treat all Bidders 
with equity and reason. The Principal will in particula r, before 
and during the tender process, provide to all Bidders the same 
information and will not provide to any Bidder 
confidential/additional information through which the Bidder 
could obtain an advantage in relation to the tender process or 
the contract execution. 
 
3.   The Principal will exclude from the process all known prejudiced 
persons. 

--- PAGE 173 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 173 of 190 
 
(2)    If the Principal obtains information on the conduct of any of its 
employees which is a criminal offence under the relevant Anti -Corruption 
Laws of India, or if there be a substantive suspicion in this regard, the 
Principal will inform its Vigilance Office and in addition can initiate 
disciplinary actions. 
 
Section 2 - Commitments of the Bidder/Contractor 
 
(1)     The Bidder/Contractor commits itself to take all measures 
necessary to prevent corruption. He commits himself to observe the 
following principles during his participation in the tender process and 
during the contract execution. 
 
1. The Bidder/Contractor will not,  directly  or  through  any  other 
person or firm, offer, promise or give to any of the Principal's 
employees  involved in  the  tender  process  or  the  execution  
of the  contract or to any third person  any  material  or  
immaterial  benefit which he/she is not legally entitled to, in 
order to obtain  in  exchange any advantage of any kind 
whatsoever during the tender process or during the execution of 
the contract. 
 
2. The Bidder/Contractor will not enter with other Bidders into any 
undisclosed agreement or understanding, whether formal or 
informal. This applies in particular to prices, specifications, 
certifications, Subsidiary contracts, submission or non -
submission of bids or any other actions to restrict 
competitiveness or to introduce cartelisation in the bidding 
process. 
 
3. The Bidder/Co ntractor will not commit any offence under the 
relevant Anticorruption Laws of India; further the 
Bidder/Contractor will not use improperly, for purposes of 
competition or personal gain, or pass on to others, any 
information or document provided by the Pri ncipal as part of the 
business relationship, regarding plans, technical proposals and 
business details, including information contained or transmitted 
electronically. 
 
4. The Bidder/Contractor will, when presenting his bid, disclose 
any and all payments he has made, is committed to or intends to 
make to agents, brokers or any other intermediaries in 
connection with the award of the contract. 
 
(2)     The Bidder/Contractor will not instigate third persons to commit 
offences outlined above or be an accessory to such offences.  
 

--- PAGE 174 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 174 of 190 
 
Section 3 - Disqualification from tender process an exclusion 
from future Contracts 
 
If the Bidder, before contract award has committed a transgression  
through a violation of Section-2 or in any other form such as to put his 
reliability or risibility as Bidder into question, the Principal is entitled to 
disqualify the  Bidder from the tender process or to  terminate the 
contract, if already signed,  for  such reason. 
 
1.    If the Bidde r/Contractor has committed a transgression through a 
violation of Section 2  such as to put his reliability or credibility into 
question, the Principal is entitled also to exclude the Bidder/Contractor 
from future contract award processes. The imposition an d duration of the 
exclusion will be determined by the severity of the transgression. The 
severity will be determined by the circumstances of the case, in particular 
the number of transgressions, the position of the transgressions within 
the Company hierarchy of the Bidder and the amount of the damage. The 
exclusion will be imposed for a minimum of 6 months and maximum of 3 
years. 
 
2.    The Bidder accepts and undertakes to respect and uphold the 
Principal's Absolute right to resort to and impose such exclus ion and 
further accepts and undertakes not to challenge or question such 
exclusion on any ground, including the lack of any hearing before the 
decision to resort to such exclusion is taken. This undertaking is given 
freely and after obtaining independent legal advice. 
 
3.   If the Bidder/Contractor can prove that he has restored/recouped the 
Damage caused by him and has installed a suitable corruption prevention 
system, the Principal may revoke the exclusion prematurely.  
 
4.     A transgression is consider ed to have occurred if in light of available 
evidence no reasonable doubt is possible.  
 
Section 4 - Compensation for Damages  
 
1.     If the Principal has disqualified the Bidder from the tender process 
prior to the award according to Section 3, the Principal is entitled to 
demand and recover from the Bidder liquidated damages equivalent to 3 % 
of the value of the offer or the amo unt equivalent to Earnest Money 
Deposit/Bid Security, whichever is higher.  
 
2.     If the Principal has terminated the contract according to Section 3, or 
if    the Principal is entitled to terminate the contract according to section 
3, the Principal shal l be entitled to demand and recover from the 
Contractor liquidated damages equivalent to 5% of the contract value or 
the amount equivalent to Security Deposit/Performance Bank Guarantee, 
whichever is higher. 

--- PAGE 175 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 175 of 190 
 
3.     The bidder agrees and undertakes to pay t he said amounts without 
protest or demur subject only to condition that if the Bidder/Contractor 
can prove and establish that the exclusion of the Bidder from the tender 
process or the termination of the contract after the contract award has 
caused no dama ge or less damage than the amount or the liquidated 
damages, the Bidder/Contractor shall compensate the Principal only to 
the extent of the damage in the amount proved. 
 
Section 5 - Previous transgression 
 
1.    The Bidder declares that no previous transgr ession occurred in the 
last 3 years with any other Company in any country conforming to the TI 
approach or with any other Public Sector Enterprise in India that could 
justify his exclusion from the tender process.  
 
 2.   If the Bidder makes incorrect stat ement on this subject, he can be 
disqualified from the tender process or the contract, if already awarded, 
can be terminated for such reason.  
 
Section 6 - Equal treatment of all Bidders/ Contractor/ 
Subcontractors 
 
1.     The Bidder/Contractor undertakes to demand form all 
subcontractors a   commitment in conformity with this Integrity Pact, and 
to submit it to the Principal before contract signing. 
 
2.     The Principal will enter into agreements with identical conditions as 
this one with all Bidders, Contractors and Subcontractors. 
 
3.    The Principal will disqualify from the tender process all bidders who 
do not sign this Pact or violate its provisions.  
 
Section 7 - Criminal charges against violating Bidders/ 
Contractors/Subcontractors  
 
If the Princip al obtains knowledge of conduct of a Bidder, 
Contractor or Subcontractor, or of an employee or a representative or an 
associate of a Bidder, Contractor or Subcontractor, which constitutes 
corruption, or if the Principal has substantive suspicion in this regard, the 
Principal will inform the Vigilance Office. 
 
Section 8 - External Independent Monitor/ Monitors (three 
in number depending on the size of the 
contract) (to be decided by the Chairperson of 
the Principal) 
 
1.    The Principal appoints competent an d credible external independent 
Monitor for this Pact. The task of the Monitor is to review independently 

--- PAGE 176 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 176 of 190 
 
and objectively, whether and to what extent the parties comply with the 
obligations under this agreement. 
 
2.    The Monitor is not subject to instructions by the representatives of 
the parties and performs his functions neutrally and independently. He 
reports to the Chairperson of the Board of the Principal. 
 
3.    The Contractor accepts that the Monitor has the right to access 
without restriction to all Project documentation of the Principal including 
that provided by the Contractor. The Contractor will also grant the 
Monitor, upon his request and demonstration of a valid interest, 
unrestricted and unconditional access to his project documentati on. The 
same is applicable to Subcontractors. The Monitor is under contractual 
obligation to treat the information and documents of the Bidder/ 
Contractor/Subcontractor with confidentiality. 
  
4.     The Principal will provide to the Monitor sufficient inf ormation about   
all meetings among the parties related to the Project provided such 
meetings could have an impact on the contractual relations between the 
Principal and the Contractor. The parties offer to the Monitor the option to 
participate in such meetings. 
 
5.     As soon as the Monitor notices, or believes to notice, a violation of 
this agreement, he will so inform the Management of the Principal and 
request the Management to discontinue or heal the violation, or to take 
other relevant action. The mo nitor can in this regard submit non -binding 
recommendations. Beyond this, the Monitor has no right to demand from 
the parties that they act in a specific manner, refrain from action or 
tolerate action. 
 
6.   The Monitor will submit a written report to the Chairperson of the 
Board of the Principal within 8 to 10 weeks from the date of reference or 
intimation to him by the 'Principal' and, should the occasion arise, submit 
proposals for correcting problematic situations. 
 
7.    If the Monitor has reported to the Chairperson of the Board a 
substantiated suspicion of an offence under relevant Anti -Corruption 
Laws of India, and the Chairperson has not, within reasonable time, taken 
visible action to proceed against such offence or reported it to the 
Vigilance Office, the Monitor may also transmit this information directly to 
the Central Vigilance Commissioner, Government of India. 
 
8.    The word 'Monitor' would include both singular and plural. 
  
Section 9 - Pact Duration 
 
This Pact begins when both parties have legally signed it. It expires 
for the Contractor 12 months after the last payment under the respective 

--- PAGE 177 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 177 of 190 
 
contract, and for all other Bidders 6 months after the contract has been 
awarded.  
 
If any claim is made/ lodged during this time, the same shall be 
binding and continue to be valid despite the lapse of this pact as specified 
above, unless it is discharged/determined by Chairperson of the Principal. 
 
Section 10 - Other provisions 
 
1.   This agreement is subject to In dian Law. Place of performance and 
jurisdiction is the Registered Office of the Principal, i.e. New Delhi. 
 
2.   Changes and supplements as well as termination notices need to be 
made in writing. Side agreements have not been made. 
 
3.    If the Contractor  is a partnership or a consortium, this agreement 
must be, signed by all partners or consortium members. 
  
4.  Should one or several provisions of this agreement turn out to be 
invalid, the remainder of this agreement remains valid. In this case, the 
parties will strive to come to an agreement to their original intensions. 
 
 
 
-------------------------                                     -------------------------------- 
For the Principal                                           For the Bidder/Contractor 
 
 
Place :    Duliajan      Witness1 : ........................... 
 
Date :          Witness 2: .......................... 
  
 
&&&& 
  

--- PAGE 178 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 178 of 190 
 
PROFORMA-B 
 
PRICE BID FORMAT 
 
IFB No. CDG3685P15 for Supply, Installation and Commissioning of Natural 
Gas Engine Based Power Plant to be owned by Oil India Limited and 
subsequent Operation & Maintenance of the Plant for 10(Ten) years 
   
SCHEDULE OF RATES: The bidder is to quote their rates as per the schedule 
below: 
 
A.0 TOTAL CAPITAL COST: The bidder is to quote for the total Capital Cost 
as per the schedule below: 
 
 
 
 
Sl 
No  
Description of work   (inclusive of all 
that are covered item wise in scope of 
work under terms of reference & 
technical specification the tender 
document )  
 
 
Quantity 
Total Price 
 
 
Rs in 
figure 
 
 
Rs in 
words 
01 Civil & Structural Work 
 
LSM   
02 Natural Gas Engine Driven generating set LSM   
03 Electrical Items & Illumination LSM   
04 Piping work    
 
 
05 
Misc Mechanical Equipment ( e. g 
Compressor , Gas dryer/ booster plant , gas 
purification plant etc) 
LSM   
06 Firefighting system LSM   
07 Black start Generating Set LSM   
08 Construction of water & effluent disposal 
system 
LSM   
09 Fitting of Lifting facilities LSM   
10 Implementation of CDM project LSM   
11 Painting of entire plant LSM   
 TOTAL CAPITAL COST : A    
 
Bidder to provide Cost breakup for Item No 02 and Item No 03 in their bid. The 
break-up is to be shown separately. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 179 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 179 of 190 
 
B.0 TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTAINANCE COST: The bidder is to quote 
for the Operation & Maintenance cost (O&M Cost) of the Power Plant as 
per below: 
 
Sl No ITEM CURRENCY COST 
Operation & Maintenance Cost Of the 
plant 
 
Rs  
1. For The First Year   
2 For The Second Year   
3 For The Third Year   
4 For The Fourth Year   
5 For The Fifth Year   
6 For The Sixth Year   
7 For The Seventh Year   
8 For The Eight Year   
9 For The Ninth Year   
10 For The Tenth Year   
 
TOTAL OPERATION & MAINTAINANCE 
COST : B 
  
 
TOTAL COMMERCIAL QUOTE = Total Capital Cost “A” + Total 
Operational Cost “B”. 
 
Note: The followings should be taken note by the bidders while quoting for this 
tender: 
1. The bid price should be inclusive of all taxes & levies but excluding 
Service Tax on “FOR Kumchai basis”. 
2. Prices shall be quoted strictly as per the Price Schedule Format made 
available herein without altering any of the contents of the “ Price 
Schedule Format “. 
3. Prices shall be quoted in Figures as well as in Words. If there is any 
discrepancy between the unit price and the total price, the unit price will 
prevail and the total price shall be corrected. Similarly, if there is any 
discrepancy between words and figure, the amounts in words shall prevail 
and will be adopted for evaluation. 
4. Price quoted against the items shall be inclusive of all applicable Taxes & 
Duties but excluding and Service Tax. 
5. There is an Arunachal Pradesh entry tax applicable on all the Goods & 
Services entering Arunachal Pradesh. Bidder to take note of this and 
forward their quote inclusive of the entry tax.  
6. The operation & Maintenance Cost is to be inclusive of all types of 
spares. The bidder is to forward the list of tentative spares to be 
consumed for operation & maintenance of the plant on per year basis. 
 
   

--- PAGE 180 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 180 of 190 
 
PROFORMA-C 
 
BID FORM 
To 
M/s. Oil India Limited, 
P.O. Duliajan, Assam, India 
 
Sub:  IFB No. CDG3685P15 
 
Gentlemen, 
 
Having  examined  the General and  Special  Conditions  of Contract and 
the Terms of Reference including all attachments thereto, the receipt  of 
which is hereby duly acknowledged,  we the undersigned offer to perform 
the services in conformity with the said conditions of Contract and Terms 
of Reference for  the sum of ______________ (Total Bid Amount in 
words  and figures) or such  other sums as  may be ascertained  in 
accordance with the Schedule of Prices attached herewith  and made part 
of this Bid. 
 
We undertake, if our Bid is accepted, to commence the work within 
(__________) days calculated from the date of issue of Letter of Award 
(LOA).  
 
If our Bid is accepted, we will obtain the guarantee of a bank in a sum not 
exceeding ___________________ for the due performance of the Contract. 
                     
We agree to abide by this Bid for a period of 180 days from the date fixed 
for Bid closing and it shall remain binding upon us and may be accepted 
at any time before the expiration of that period. 
 
Until a formal Contract is prepared and executed,  this Bid, together with 
your written acceptance thereof in your notification of award shall 
constitute a binding Contract between us. 
 
We understand that you are not bound to accept the lowest or any Bid 
you may receive. 
 
Dated this  _______ day of  __________________ 2014. 
             
             
Authorised Person’s Signature: _________________                                                                                                           
 
Name: _______________________________ 
Designation:_________________________ 
 
Seal of the Bidder:  

--- PAGE 181 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 181 of 190 
 
PROFORMA-D 
 
STATEMENT OF NON-COMPLIANCE 
(Only exceptions/deviations to be rendered) 
 
 
1.0 The Bidder shall furnish detailed statement of 
exceptions/deviations, if any, to the tender stipulations, terms and 
conditions in respect of each Section of Bid Document in the following 
format:  
 
Section 
No. 
Clause 
No.  
(Page 
No.) 
Non-Compliance Remarks 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
2.0  In addition to the above the Bidder shall furnish detailed 
information pertaining to construction, operational requirements, 
velocity-pattern, added technical features, if any and limitations  etc. of 
the Inspection Tool proposed to be deployed. 
 
 
Authorised Person’s Signature: _________________                                                                                                           
 
Name: _______________________________ 
Designation:_________________________ 
 
Seal of the Bidder:  
 
 
NOTE: OIL INDIA LIMITED expects the bidders to fully accept the terms 
and conditions of the bid document. However, should the bidders still 
envisage some exceptions/deviations to the terms and conditi ons of the 
bid document, the same should be indicated as per above format and 
submit along with their bids. If the “ Statement of Compliance ” in the 
above Proforma is left blank (or not submitted along with the technical 
bid), then it would be construed tha t the bidder has not taken any 
exception/deviation to the tender requirements. 

--- PAGE 182 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 182 of 190 
 
PROFORMA-E 
FORM OF BID SECURITY (BANK GUARANTEE) 
To:  
M/s. OIL INDIA LIMITED, 
For Head (Contracts) 
Duliajan, Assam, India, Pin - 786 602 
 
WHEREAS,  (Name of  Bidder) _______________ (hereinafter called "the Bidder") 
has submitted  their  offer Dated __________ for the provision of certain oilfield 
services (hereinafter called  "the  Bid") against  OIL INDIA  LIMITED, Duliajan, 
Assam, India (hereinafter called the Company)'s  IFB No. ___________. KNOW ALL 
MEN BY these presents that we (Name of Bank) ___________  of (Name of Country) 
_______ having our registered  office at __________ (hereinafter called "Bank") are 
bound unto the Company in the sum of (*) for  which payment well and truly to 
be made to Company, the Bank binds  itself, its successors and assignees by 
these presents. SEALED with the common seal of the said Bank this ___ day of 
___ 2014. 
 
THE CONDITIONS of these obligations are: 
(1)    If the Bidder withdraws their Bid during the period of Bid validity specified by the 
Bidder; or 
 
(2)   If the Bidder, having been notified of acceptance of their Bid by the Company 
during the period of Bid validity: 
 
(a)  Fails or refuses to execute the form of agreement  in accordance with the 
Instructions to Bidders; or 
 
(b)  Fails or refuses to furnish the Performance  Security in accordance with the 
Instructions to Bidders; 
 
We undertake to pay to Company up to the above amount upon receipt of its first 
written demand (by way of letter/fax/cable), without Company having to 
substantiate its  demand provided that in its demand Company will note that 
the amount claimed by it is du e to it owing to the occurrence of one or both of 
the two conditions, specifying the occurred condition or conditions.  
 
This guarantee will remain in force up to and including the date(**) and any 
demand in respect thereof should reach the Bank not later than the above date. 
 
 SIGNATURE AND SEAL OF THE GUARANTORS _______________ 
 Name of Bank & Address ___________________________________ 
 
 Witness _______________ 
 Address ________________ 
 __________________________ 
(Signature, Name and Address) 
 
Date:   ________________    
Place:  _____________ 
*   The Bidder should insert the amount of the guarantee in words and figures. 
**  Date of expiry of Bank Guarantee should be minimum 30 days after the end of the 
validity period of the Bid. 

--- PAGE 183 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 183 of 190 
 
PROFORMA - F 
FORM OF PERFORMANCE BANK GUARANTEE 
To:  
M/s. OIL INDIA LIMITED, 
(HEAD-CONTRACTS) 
Duliajan, Assam, India, Pin - 786 602. 
 
WHEREAS ______________________________________ (Name and address of 
Contractor) (hereinafter called "Contractor") had undertaken, in pursua nce of 
Contract No. _______________________ to execute (Name of Contract and Brief 
Description of  the Work) ___________________ (hereinafter called "the Contract"). 
 
AND WHEREAS it has been stipulated by you in the said Contract that the 
Contractor shall furnish you with a Bank Guarantee as security for compliance 
with Contractor's obligations in accordance with the Contract. 
 
AND WHEREAS we have agreed to give the Contractor such a  Bank Guarantee; 
NOW THEREFORE we hereby affirm that   we are Guarantors o n behalf of the 
Contractor, up to a total of (Amount  of Guarantee in figures) _____________ (in 
words ___________________),  such amount being   payable in the types and 
proportions of currencies in which the Contract price is payable, and we 
undertake to pay   you, upon your first  written demand and without cavil or 
argument, any sum or sums within  the limits of guarantee sum as  aforesaid 
without your needing to prove or to show grounds or  reasons  for  your demand 
for the sum specified therein. We her eby waive the necessity of your demanding 
the said debt from the Contractor before presenting us with the demand. 
 
We   further agree that no change or addition   to or other modification of the 
terms of the Contract or the work  to be performed thereunder or of any of the 
Contract documents which may be made between you and the Contractor shall 
in any way cease us from any liability under this guarantee, and we hereby waive 
notice of such change, addition or modification. 
                  
This guarantee is valid until the date _________ . 
 
 
SIGNATURE AND SEAL OF THE GUARANTORS _____________________ 
Designation ____________________________________ 
Name of Bank ___________________________________ 
Address ________________________________________ 
 
Witness  _______________ 
Address ________________ 
              ________________ 
 
Date  ............    
Place  _____________ 
 

--- PAGE 184 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 184 of 190 
 
PROFORMA-G  
      
AGREEMENT FORM 
      
 This Agreement is made on ____ day  of ___________________ between Oil 
India Limited, a Government  of India Enterprise, incorporated under the 
Companies Act 1956, having its registered office at Duliajan in the State of 
Assam, hereinafter called the "Compa ny” which expression unless 
repugnant to the context shall include executors, administrators and 
assignees on the one part, and M/s.  ______________ (Name and address of 
Contractor) hereinafter called the "Contractor” which expression unless 
repugnant to t he context shall include executors, administrators and 
assignees on the other part, 
      
 WHEREAS the Company desires that Services ________________________ 
(brief description of services) should be provided by the Contractor as 
detailed hereinafter or as Company may requires; 
      
 WHEREAS, Contractor engaged themselves in the business of offering 
such services represents that they have adequate resources and 
equipment, material etc. in good working order and fully trained personnel 
capable of efficiently undertaking the operations a nd is ready, willing and 
able to carry out the said services for the Company as per Section -
II attached herewith for this purpose and   
 
 WHEREAS, Company had issued a firm Letter of Award No. 
________________ dated ___________ based on Offer No. _________ ___ dated 
____________ submitted  by the  Contractor against Company's IFB No. 
__________. All these aforesaid documents shall be deemed to form and be 
read and construed as part  of this agreement/contract. However, should 
there be any dispute arising out of interpretation of this contract in regard 
to the terms and conditions with those mentioned in Company‟s tender 
document and subsequent letters including the Letter of Intent and 
Contractor's offer and their subsequent letters, the terms and conditions 
attached hereto shall prevail. Changes, additions or deletions to the terms 
of the contract shall be authorized solely by an amendment to the contract 
executed in the same manner as this contract. 
      
 NOW WHEREAS, in consideration of the mutual covenants a nd 
agreements hereinafter contained, it is hereby agreed as follows - 
      
1.  In this Agreement words and expressions shall have the same meanings 
as are respectively assigned to them in the Conditions of Contract referred 
to. 
   
2.  In addition to docum ents herein above,  the following Sections and 
Annexures attached herewith shall be deemed to form and be read and 
construed as part of this agreement viz.: 

--- PAGE 185 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 185 of 190 
 
   
(a)  Section-I  indicating the General Conditions of this Contract; 
(b)   Section-II  indicating the Terms of Reference; 
(c)  Section-III  indicating the Special Terms & Condition; 
(d) Section-IV  indicating the Schedule of Rates. 
   
 3.  In consideration of the payments to be made by the Company to the 
Contractor as hereinafter mentioned, the Contractor hereby covenants 
with the Company to provide the Services and to remedy defects therein in 
conformity in all respect with the provisions of this Contract. 
   
 4.   The Company hereby covenants to pay the Contractor in consideration of 
the provision of the Services and  the remedying  of defects therein, the 
Contract Price or such other sum as may become payable under the 
provisions of t his Contract at the times and in the manner prescribed by 
this Contract. 
   
 IN WITNESS thereof, each party has executed this contract at Duliajan, 
Assam as of the date shown above. 
   
     Signed, Sealed and Delivered, 
   
   
   
   
For and on behalf of    for and on behalf of Contractor 
Company (Oil India Limited)   (M/s. ________________________) 
   
   
   Name:                               Name: 
   
   Status:                               Status: 
   
   
   In presence of                        In presence of 
   
   1.                                     1. 
   
   2.                                     2. 
 
 

--- PAGE 186 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 186 of 190 
 
 PROFORMA–H 
 
PROFORMA LETTER OF AUTHORITY 
 
TO  
HEAD (CONTRACTS) 
Oil India Ltd., 
P.O. Duliajan - 786 602 
Assam, India 
 
Sir, 
 
 Sub: OIL's IFB No. CDG3685P15 
 
 
 
 We ____________________________ confirm that Mr. _________ (Name and 
address) as authorised to represent us to Bid, negotiate and conclude the 
agreement on our behalf with you against Tender Invitation No. 
________________________ for hiring of services for _______________________. 
      
 We confirm that we shall be bound by all and whatsoever our said 
representative shall commit. 
 
 
 
Yours Faithfully, 
 
 
Authorised Person’s Signature: _________________                                                                                                           
 
Name: _______________________________ 
Designation: _________________________ 
 
Seal of the Bidder:  
 
 
Note: This letter of authority shall be on printed letter head of the 
Bidder and shall be signed by a person competent and having the power of 
attorney (power of attorney shall be annexed) to bind such Bidder. If 
signed by a consortium, it shall be signed by members of the consortium. 

--- PAGE 187 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 187 of 190 
 
PROFORMA–I 
 
AUTHORISATION FOR ATTENDING BID OPENING 
 
TO                       Date : ____________ 
HEAD (CONTRACTS) 
Oil India Ltd., 
P.O. Duliajan - 786 602 
Assam, India 
 
Sir, 
 
  Sub : OIL's IFB No. CDG3685P15  
     
 
 
 
We authorise Mr. /Mrs. ______________ (Name and address) to be present 
at the time of opening of the above IFB due on _____________ at Duliajan 
on our behalf.  
 
      
  
 
Yours Faithfully, 
 
 
Authorised Person’s Signature: _________________                                                                                                           
 
Name: _______________________________ 
Designation: _________________________ 
 
Seal of the Bidder:  
 
 
Note: This letter of authority shall be on printed letter head of the 
Bidder and shall be signed by a person who signs the bid. 
 
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 188 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 188 of 190 
 
ANNEXURE–B 
 
LOCATIONS MAP 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 189 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 189 of 190 
 
ANNEXURE–C 
 
Procedure for reporting near Miss Incident/Accident  
for Contractor (LSTK) Personnel: 
 
PROCESS ACTION 
 
 
 
 
A).  REPORT:  
NEAR MISS 
INCIDENT OR 
ACCIDENT 
LSTK Contractor shall be solely responsible for work safety of all of his deputed personnel. 
However, the LSTK Contractor along with his appointed Safety officer shall be assigned with 
the responsibility for co -ordination of reporting of Near Miss incident/accident and 
investigation thereof. Arrangements will be established to ensure compliance with statutory 
incident reporting and investigation requirements as per the following details: 
1). Open reporting is to be 
encouraged for any of the 
following incidents : 
 Injuries resulting from 
accidents (incidents 
resulting in man days loss, 
Medical and discharge, 
requiring first aid.); 
 Medical emergencies and 
evacuations; 
 Other loss events such as 
asset or environmental 
damage; 
 Incidents of  near misses; 
 Potentially hazardous 
situation 
2). All reports will be made using the standard report forms 
as mentioned below (FORM-A for Report of Accident & 
FORM -B for Report of Near miss Incident). The 
information which needs to be reported and recorded, 
includes : 
 Details of the event; 
 Description of the circumstances surrounding the event; 
 Details of any injuries or illness and, actual or potential 
occupational exposure; 
 Adverse effects on the environment; 
 Details of involved persons, any casualties or witnesses, 
and their statement of events; 
 Details of the outcomes and any recovery actions taken; 
 Potential consequences; 
 Any identified management system failures which 
contributed to the incident or the way it was damaged 
3). Each Near miss incident  and potential hazardous situation will be categorized according 
to the severity of the actual outcome and the potential outcome in terms of damage to 
people, assets, the environment and company reputation in accordance with the Incident 
Reporting classification. 
Near Miss incidents will be reported forthwith through the management chain according to 
the actual or potential severity in accordance with the Incident Reporting guideline as 
mentioned in FORM-B. 
All near miss incidents and potentially hazardous situations will be recorded. 
 
B) 
INVESTIGATE 
INCIDENT 
CAUSE 
All near misses incidents and potential hazardous situations will be investigated to establish 
the immediate and underlying causes and to identify actions to : 
 Restore compliance/correct situation as quickly as possible 
 Prevent recurrence and improve performance. 
 Assessing and limiting adverse HSSE effects. 
 Ensuring planned actions integrate with other HSSE effects. 
All investigations will be documented in detail with sketches and photographs. A copy of the 
investigation report shall be submitted to OIL 
C) IMPLEMENT 
CORRECTIVE/ 
PREVENTIVE 
ACTIONS 
An action plan for the remedial measures identified in the investigation will be completed 
including responsibilities, completion dates and reporting requirements. 
D) FOLLOW-
UP 
Progress against the action plans will be reported in the joint monthly safety meeting held 
between LSTK personnel & OIL. Critical recommendations to be highli ghted in the safety 
meeting at the site level. 
E) FEEDBACK Incident reports should be analyzed for trends in incident occurrence and actions taken to 
make improvements. 

--- PAGE 190 ---
 
IFB No. CDG 3685 P15 
Page 190 of 190 
 
FORAM-A 
REPORT OF ACCIDENT  
(To be filled up forthwith) 
1.a Name of the Injured :   
1.b Code . No. of Injured :   
2.a Event Date  :  
2.b Event Time :  
3.1 Accident Place (Work 
Area) 
:   
3.2 Exact Location :   
4 Mine :   
5 Nature and extent of 
injury 
:  
6 Brief Description of the 
accident 
:   
7 Cause of accident 
( Examples: Lack of 
training/ Lack of 
Supervision/ Improper 
attitude towards the job/ 
Lack of co-ordination/ 
Improper use of tools/ 
Unsafe working condition/ 
Failure of equipment/ 
Environmental factor/ 
Negligence/ Non use of 
safety gears, other reason) 
  
:  
  
8 Date of Birth :   
9 Work Experience :   
10 Who or What is 
Responsible for accident 
:   
11 Name of the witness of 
the accident 
:   
12 Person in direct charge 
at the time of accident 
:   
13 How can a similar 
accident be prevented 
:   
 
Name & Signature of LSTK 
Contractor Date: 
 
 

