--- PAGE 1 ---
Page 1 of 273 
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________________________________________________________________________ 
FORWARDING LETTER 
 
Sub: IFB No. CDH7317P22 for ‘Implementation of initiative-HSSE Incident 
Reporting and Tracking Application for four (04) years and six (06) months 
and extendable by one (01) year under the Digitization Project (DRIVE).’ 
 
Dear Sir(s), 
 
1.0 OIL INDIA LIMITED (OIL), a “Navaratna” Category, Government of India 
Enterprise, is a premier Oil Company engaged in exploration, production and 
transportation of crude oil & natural gas with its Headquarters at Duliajan, 
Assam. Duliajan is well connected by Air with nearest Airport being at 
Dibrugarh, 45 km away. 
 
2.0 In connection with its operations, OIL invites National Competitive Bids (NCB) 
from competent and experienced/approved Contractors for the mentioned 
work/service under OPEN E-TENDER SINGLE STAGE TWO BID SYSTEM 
through OIL’s E-Procurement Portal: “https://etender.srm.oilindia.in/irj/portal” 
for ‘Implementation of initiative-HSSE Incident Reporting and Tracking 
Application for four (04) years and six (06) months and extendable by one 
(01) year under the Digitization Project (DRIVE)’. One complete set of Bid 
Document covering OIL's IFB for hiring of above services is uploaded in OIL’s E-
Procurement Portal. You are invited to submit your most competitive bid on or 
before the scheduled bid closing date and time through OIL’s E-Procurement 
Portal. For your ready reference, few salient points of the IFB (covered in detail 
in the Bid Document) are highlighted below: 
 
(i)  IFB No./E-Tender 
No. 
: CDH7317P22 
(ii)  Type of Bid :  Open Indigenous E-Tender, Single Stage 
Two Bid System 
(iii)  Bid Closing Date & 
Time 
:  As mentioned in the E-procurement portal.  
 
(iv)  Technical Bid 
Opening Date & Time 
:  As mentioned in the E-procurement portal.  
 
(v)  Price Bid Opening 
Date & Time 
:  As mentioned in the E-procurement portal.  
 
(vi)  Bid Submission 
Mode 
: Bids must be uploaded online in OIL’s E-
Procurement Portal. 
(vii)  Bid Opening Place  : Office of GM-Contracts 
Contracts Department,  
OIL INDIA LIMITED 
(A Govt. of India Enterprise) 
P.O. DULIAJAN, DIST - DIBRUGARH       
ASSAM, INDIA, PIN-786602              
CONTRACTS DEPARTMENT 
TEL: (91) 374-2800548     
E-mail: contracts@oilindia.in    
Website: www.oil-india.com    
FAX: (91) 374-2803549                        


--- PAGE 2 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 2 of 273 
 
Oil India Limited, Duliajan-786602,  
Assam, India. 
(viii)  Bid Validity :  Minimum 120 (One Hundred Twenty) days 
from Closing Date. 
Note: In exceptional circumstances, OIL 
may solicit the Bidder's consent to an 
extension of the period of validity. The 
request and the response thereto shall be 
made in writing. A Bidder may refuse the 
request without forfeiting its Bid Security. A 
Bidder granting the request will neither be 
required nor permitted to modify their bid. 
(ix)  Mobilization Period : 15 (fifteen) days from the date of issue of 
Work Order. Mobilization shall be 
considered as completed once a kick-off 
meeting is done between OIL and the 
Successful Bidder. 
 
(x)  Bid Security/EMD 
Amount 
: Not applicable 
(xi)  Bid Security/EMD 
Validity 
: Not applicable 
(xii)  Amount of 
Performance Security 
: 3% of Annualized Contract Value. 
Refer Clause No. 24.0 of Instruction to 
Bidder (ITB) 
(xiii)  Validity of 
Performance Security 
: 90 (Ninety) days beyond the contract period. 
(xiv)  Location of job 
 
Field Head Quartes, Duliajan 
(xv)  Duration of the 
Contract 
: 4.5 years and extendable by one (01) 
year from the commencement of the 
service as mentioned in the Work Order 
i.e. after completion of mobilization.  
(xvi)  Quantum of 
Liquidated Damage 
for Default in Timely 
Mobilization/ 
Completion     
: Refer Clause No. 30.0 of General 
Conditions of Contract (GCC). 
(xvii)  Bids to be addressed 
to 
: GM-Contracts,  
Contracts Department, 
Oil India Limited, Duliajan-786602,  
Assam, India. 
(xviii)  Pre-Bid conference : Tentatively on the 10.07.2021. Exact date 
and venue shall be intimated nearer the 
time.  
(xix)  Last Date of receipt 
of Queries 
: 04.07.2021 

--- PAGE 3 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 3 of 273 
 
   
3.0  GUIDELINES FOR PARTICIPATING IN OIL’S E-PROCUREMENT: 
3.1 To participate in OIL’s E-procurement tender, bidders should have a legally valid 
digital certificate of Class 3 with Organization’s Name and Encryption 
certificate as per Indian IT Act from the licensed Certifying Authorities 
operating under the Root Certifying Authority of India (RCAI), Controller of 
Certifying Authorities (CCA) of India (http://www.cca.gov.in). Digital Signature 
Certificates having “Organization Name” field as “Personal” are not 
acceptable. However, aforesaid Digital Signature Certificates having Bidder’s 
Name in the “Organization Name” field are acceptable. “Only in case of sole 
proprietorship firms, Digital Signature Certificates issued in the name of 
the proprietor is also acceptable provided the bid is submitted in the 
capacity of a proprietorship firm.” 
 
3.2 Digital Signature Certificate comes in a pair of signing/verification and 
encryption/decryption certificate. Bidder should have both the 
Signing/verification and Encryption/Decryption certificate for Signing and 
encryption, decryption purpose respectively. The driver needs to be installed 
once, without which the DSC will not be recognized. While participating on e-
Tendering the DSC token should be connected to your system.   
 
3.3 Encryption certificate is mandatorily required for submission of bid. In case 
bidder created response with one certificate (using encryption key) and bidder 
change his Digital Signature Certificate then old certificate [Used for encryption] 
is required in order to decrypt his encrypted response for getting the EDIT mode 
of the response. Once decryption is done, bidder may use new DSC certificate 
for uploading and submission of their offer. It is the sole responsibility of the 
bidder to keep their DSC certificate properly. In case of loss of the certificate, 
OIL INDIA LTD. will not be responsible. 
 
3.4 For participation, applicants already having User ID & Password for OIL’s E-
Procurement Portal need to register against the IFB. New vendors/existing 
vendors not having User ID & Password for OIL’s E-Procurement Portal shall 
obtain User ID & password through online vendor registration system in E-
Portal.  
 
3.4.1  Bidders without having E-Tender Login ID and password should complete their 
online registration at least 07 (Seven) days prior to the scheduled bid closing 
date and time of the tender. For online registration, bidder may visit OIL’s E-
Tender site - https://etender.srm.oilindia.in/irj/portal. 
 
3.4.2 Necessary Login ID & Password will be issued by OIL only after submitting the 
complete online registration by the Bidder. In the event of late 
registration/incomplete registration by bidder, OIL INDIA LIMITED shall not be 
responsible for late allotment of User ID & Password and request for bid closing 
date extension on that plea shall not be entertained by Company. 
 
3.5 Parties, who do not have a User ID, can click on Guest login button in the E-
Tender portal to view and download the tender. The detailed guidelines are given 
in User Manual available in OIL’s E-Procurement site. For any clarification in 

--- PAGE 4 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 4 of 273 
 
this regard, bidders may contact E-Tender Support Cell at Duliajan at 
erp_mm@oilindia.in and esupport@oilindia.in, Ph.: 0374- 2807171/7192. 
 
3.7 The link for OIL’s E-Procurement Portal is available on OIL’s web site (www.oil-
india.com). 
 
4.0 IMPORTANT NOTES: Bidders shall take note of the following important points 
while participating in OIL’s e-procurement tender: 
 
i) BACKING OUT BY BIDDER: In case any bidder withdraws their bid within the 
bid validity period, as declared in the “Bid Security Declaration Form”, bidder 
shall be suspended for the period of two years. This suspension of two year shall 
be automatic without conducting any enquiry. 
 
ii) BACKING OUT BY L-1 BIDDER AFTER ISSUE OF LOA: In case LOA issued is 
not accepted by the L1 bidder or the Performance Security is not submitted as 
per the terms of the contract within the time specified in the Bid Document the 
bidder shall be suspended for the period of two years. This suspension of two 
years shall be automatic without conducting any enquiry. 
 
iii) FURNISHING FRAUDULENT INFORMATION/DOCUMENT: The information 
and documents furnish by the bidder/contractor in respect of the subject 
tender/contract are accepted to be true and genuine. However, if it is detected 
during technical scrutiny or after award of the contract or after expiry of the 
contract, that the bidder had submitted any fake/fraudulent document or 
furnished false statement, the offer/contract shall be rejected/cancelled, as the 
case may be and the bidder (if fake document/false statement pertains to such 
bidder) shall be dealt as per the Banning Policy (available in OIL’s website) of 
Company. The bidder has to submit an undertaking in this regard as per 
attached PROFORMA-IX. 
 
iv) ERRING/DEFAULTING AGENCIES: Erring and defaulting agencies like bidder, 
contractor, supplier, vendor, service provider will be dealt as per OIL’s Banning 
Policy dated 6th January, 2017 available in OIL’s website: www.oil-india.com. 
 
v) Bid should be submitted online in OIL’s E-procurement site up to 11.00 AM 
(IST) (Server Time) on the date as mentioned and will be opened on the same day 
at 2.00 PM (IST) at the office of the GM-Contracts in presence of the authorized 
representatives of the bidders. 
 
vi) If the digital signature used for signing is not of “Class-3” with Organizations 
name, the bid will be rejected. 
 
vii) The tender is invited under SINGLE STAGE-TWO BID SYSTEM. The bidders 
shall submit both the “TECHNICAL” and “PRICED” bids through electronic form 
in the OIL’s e-Procurement portal within the Bid Closing Date and Time 
stipulated in the e-Tender. The Technical Bid should be submitted as per Scope 
of Work & Technical Specifications along with all technical documents related to 
the tender and uploaded in “Technical Attachments” Tab only. Bidders to 
note that no price details should be uploaded in “Technical Attachments” 
Tab Page. Details of prices as per Price Bid format/Priced bid can be 

--- PAGE 5 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 5 of 273 
 
uploaded under “Notes & Attachments” tab. A screen shot in this regard is 
shown below. Offer not complying with above submission procedure will be 
rejected as per Bid Evaluation Criteria. 
 
5.0 INTEGRITY PACT: The Integrity Pact is applicable against this tender. OIL shall 
be entering into an Integrity Pact with the bidders as per format enclosed vide 
Integrity Pact, (PART-VI) of the tender document. This Integrity Pact (PART-VI) 
has been duly signed digitally by OIL's competent signatory. The (PART-VI) has 
to be returned by the bidder (along with the Un-priced Techno-Commercial Bid) 
duly signed (digitally) by the same signatory who signed the bid, i.e., who is duly 
authorized to sign the bid. Uploading the Integrity Pact with digital signature 
will be construed that all pages of the Integrity Pact has been signed by the 
bidder's authorized signatory who sign the Bid. 
 
6.0 SCREEN SHOTS 
 
Notes: 
 
 * The “Technical Bid” shall contain all techno-commercial details except the 
prices. 
 
 ** The “Priced bid” must contain the price schedule and the bidder’s 
commercial terms and conditions, if any.For  uploading  Priced  Bid,  click  on  
Add Atachment, a browser  window  will  open,  select  the  file  from  the  PC  
and  name  the  file  under Description, Assigned to General Data and click on 
OK to digitally sign and upload the File. Please click on Save Button of the 
Response to Save the uploaded files. 
 
7.0 MAINTENANCE OF TOTAL BID VALUE IN THE RESPONSE: For convenience 
of the Bidders and to improve transparency, the rates/costs quoted by bidders 
against the E-tender shall be available for online viewing to all the Techno-
commercially qualified Bidders against the tender after price bids are opened in 
the system. For tenders where Detailed Price Information under RFx 
Information Tab is “No price”, the Price Bid is invited against the tender 
through attachment form under “Notes & Attachment”. In such tenders, Bidders 
must upload their pricing as per the “Price Bid Format-Proforma-B” under 
“Notes & Attachment” and additionally fill up the on-line field “Total Bid 
Value” under “RFx Information” Tab Page with the Total Cost (Including the 
GST component) as per the amount of the Price Bid in attachment form. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 6 of 273 
 
 
 
  
 
  
The “Total Bid Value” as entered by the Bidder in the on-line response shall be 
displayed in the E-tender portal amongst the techno-commercially qualified 
bidders and Company will not take any responsibility whatsoever towards 
incorrect information furnished by the bidders on the “Total Bid Value” field. 
 It is to be noted that Amount mentioned in the “Total Bid Value” field will not be 
considered for bid evaluation and evaluation will be purely based on the Price 
bid submitted as per the “Price Bid Format: Proforma-B” under “Notes & 
Attachments” tab page. 
 
8.0 RESTRICTIONS ON PROCUREMENT FROM A BIDDER OF A COUNTRY 
WHICH SHARES LAND BORDER WITH INDIA: 
 
 Subject to Order No. F. No. 6/18/2019-PPD dated 23.07.2020 issued by 
Ministry of Finance, Department of Expenditure, Public Procurement Division, 
Govt. of India, Bidders should take note of the following: 
 
8.1 Any bidder from a country which shares a land border with India will be eligible 
to bid in this tender only if the bidder is registered with the Competent Authority 
[Registration Committee constituted by the Department for Promotion of 
Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT)]. 
 
8.2 "Bidder" (including the term 'tenderer', 'consultant' or 'service provider' in certain 
contexts) means any person or firm or company, including any member of a 
consortium or joint venture (that is an association of several persons, or firms or 
companies), every artificial juridical person not falling in any of the descriptions 
of bidders stated hereinbefore, including any agency branch or office controlled 
by such person, participating in a procurement process. 
 
8.3 "Bidder from a country which shares a land border with India" for the purpose of 
this Order means: 
 
a. An entity incorporated, established or registered in such a country; or 
“Total Bid Value” is 
mandatory in “No 
Price” RFx only 
“Total Bid Value” 
considering all the 
taxes & duties. 
Bidder to select the 
currency of the Response 


--- PAGE 7 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 7 of 273 
 
b. A subsidiary of an entity incorporated, established or registered in such a 
country; or 
c. An entity substantially controlled through entities incorporated, established or 
registered in such a country; or 
d. An entity whose beneficial owner is situated in such a country; or 
e. An Indian (or other) agent of such an entity; or 
f. A natural person who is a citizen of such a country; or 
g. A consortium or joint venture where any member of the consortium or joint 
venture falls under any of the above 
 
8.4 The beneficial owner for the purpose of para 8.3 above will be as under: 
 
8.4.1 In case of a company or Limited Liability Partnership, the beneficial owner is the 
natural person(s), who, whether acting alone or together, or through one or more 
juridical person, has a controlling ownership interest or who exercises control 
through other means. 
 
Explanation: 
 
a. "Controlling ownership interest" means ownership of or entitlement to more 
than twenty-five per cent. of shares or capital or profits of the company; 
 
b. "Control" shall include the right to appoint majority of the directors or to control 
the management or policy decisions including by virtue of their shareholding or 
management rights or shareholders agreements or voting agreements; 
 
8.4.2 In case of a partnership firm, the beneficial owner is the natural person(s) who, 
whether acting alone or together, or through one or more juridical person, has 
ownership of entitlement to more than fifteen percent of capital or profits of the 
partnership; 
 
8.4.3 In case of an unincorporated association or body of individuals, the beneficial 
owner is the natural person(s), who, whether acting alone or together, or 
through one or more juridical person, has ownership of or entitlement to more 
than fifteen percent of the property or capital or profits of such association or 
body of individuals; 
 
8.4.4 Where no natural person is identified under (8.4.1) or (8.4.2) or (8.4.3) above, the 
beneficial owner is the relevant natural person who holds the position of senior 
managing official; 
 
8.4.5 In case of a trust, the identification of beneficial owner(s) shall include 
identification of the author of the trust, the trustee, the beneficiaries with fifteen 
percent or more interest in the trust and any other natural person exercising 
ultimate effective control over the trust through a chain of control or ownership. 
 
8.5 An Agent is a person employed to do any act for another, or to represent another 
in dealings with third person. 
 
8.6 The successful bidder shall not be allowed to sub-contract works to any 
contractor from a country which shares a land border with India unless such 

--- PAGE 8 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 8 of 273 
 
contractor is registered with the Competent Authority. A declaration as per 
Exhibit-I in this respect to be submitted by the bidder. 
 
8.7 Validity of registration: In respect of tenders, registration should be valid at 
the time of submission of bids and at the time of acceptance of bids. In respect 
of supply otherwise than by tender, registration should be valid at the time of 
placement of order. If the bidder was validly registered at the time of 
acceptance/placement of order, registration shall not be a relevant consideration 
during contract execution.  
 
8.8 The bidders to provide an undertaking as per Exhibit-II along with their bid 
complying with Clause No. 8.1 above. If such certificate given by a bidder whose 
bid is accepted is found to be false, this would be a ground for immediate 
termination and further legal action in accordance with law. 
 
9.0  OIL now looks forward to your active participation in the IFB. 
 
 
 
Thanking you, 
  
 
Yours faithfully, 
       OIL INDIA LIMITED 
 
 
NABANITA DEKA 
Senior Manager – Contracts 
For General Manager – Contracts 
FOR RESIDENT CHIEF EXECUTIVE 

--- PAGE 9 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 9 of 273 
 
 
INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS 
 
1.0  ELIGIBILITY OF THE BIDDER: 
1.1 The eligibility of the bidder is listed under BID EVALUATION CRITERIA (BEC) 
of the tender document. 
 
1.2 Bidder shall bear all costs associated with the preparation and submission of 
bid. Oil India Limited, hereinafter referred to as Company, will in no case be 
responsible or liable for those costs, regardless of the conduct or outcome of 
the bidding process. 
 
2.0 BID DOCUMENTS: 
2.1 The services required, bidding procedures and contract terms are prescribed 
in the Bid Document. This Bid Document includes the following: 
 
a) A Tender Forwarding Letter  
b) Instructions to Bidders (ITB) 
c) Bid Evaluation Criteria (BEC) 
d) General Conditions of Contract (GCC) : Part-I 
e) Schedule of Work, Unit, Quantities (SOQ) : Part-II 
f) Special Conditions of Contract (SCC) : Part-III 
g) Safety Measures (SM) : Part - IV 
h) Integrity Pact (IP) : Part - V 
i) Bid Form : Proforma - I 
j) Statement of Non-Compliance : Proforma-II 
k) Authorisation for Attending Bid Opening : Proforma-III 
l) Proforma of Letter of Authority : Proforma-IV 
m) Bid Security Declaration : Proforma-V 
n) Proforma for E-Remittance : Proforma-VI 
o) Format of Performance Security : Proforma-VII 
p) Agreement Form : Proforma-VIII 
q) Format of Undertaking by Bidders towards submission of authentic 
information/documents : Proforma - IX 
r) Certificate of Compliance of Financial Criteria : Proforma - X 
s) Proforma of Bank Guarantee towards PP-LC (Proforma - XI)  
t) Commercial Check List (Proforma - XII) 
u) Undertaking towards submission of Bank Guarantee (Proforma - XIII) 
v) Format for undertaking from TPIA (Proforma – XIV) 
w) Certificate of Annual Turnover & Net Worth Proforma – XV) 
x) Format of agreement between bidder and their parent company/100% 
subsidiary company (Proforma – XVI) 
y) Parent company/subsidiary company guarantee (Proforma – XVII) 
z) Form of performance bank guarantee for ultimate parent/supporting 
company (Proforma – XVIII) 
aa) Undertaking of key personnel of the Technical 
collaborator/Subsidiary/Parent company/Joint Venture Partner 
experience (Proforma-XIX) 
bb) Corporate Guarantee of parent/ultimate parent/Holding company. 
(Proforma – XX) 

--- PAGE 10 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 10 of 273 
 
 
cc) Curriculum Vitae (CV) Format of Project Manager and Technology 
Architect (Proforma-XXI) 
dd) Certificate of Compliance of meeting Bid Reject Criteria (Proforma-
XXII) 
ee) Declaration of Compliance of meeting Bid Reject Criteria (Proforma-
XXIII) 
ff) Price Bidding Format (Attached under “Notes and Attachments” tab 
of OIL’s E-Tender portal) 
gg) Technical Evaluation Sheet for BEC-BRC & others 
hh) Purchase preference policy-linked with Local Content (PP - LC) notified 
vide Letter No. FP-20013/2/2017-FP-PNG dated 17.11.2020 of 
MoP&NG  (Annexure - I) 
 
2.2 The bidder is expected to examine all instructions, forms, terms and 
specifications in the Bid Documents. Failure to furnish all information 
required in the Bid Documents or submission of a bid not substantially 
responsive to the Bid Documents in every respect will be at the Bidder's risk 
& responsibility and may result in the rejection of its bid. 
 
2.3 Bidders shall be deemed, prior to submitting their bids, to have satisfied 
themselves about the weather conditions, working culture in the area, socio-
political environment, safety & security aspects, law & order situation and 
law of the land, and obtain for themselves all necessary information as to the 
risks, contingencies and all other circumstances, which may influence or 
affect the various obligations under the Contract. 
 
3.0 TRANSFERABILITY OF BID DOCUMENTS: 
3.1 Bid Documents are non-transferable. Bid can be submitted only in the name 
of the bidder in whose name the Bid Document has been issued. 
 
3.2 In case of E-Tender, Bidder must submit the bid using Organizational Class-
3 Digital Signature issued by the Competent Authority in favour of the 
bidder. Bid submitted using Digital Signature other than the Digital 
Signature of the bidder shall be summarily rejected.  
 
3.3   Unsolicited bids will not be considered and will be rejected straightway. 
 
4.0 AMENDMENT OF BID DOCUMENTS: 
4.1 At any time prior to the deadline for submission of bids, the Company may, 
for any reason, whether at its own initiative or in response to a clarification 
requested by a prospective Bidder, modify the Bid Documents through 
issuance of an Addendum(s)/Corrigendum(s)/Amendment(s). 
 
4.2  The Addendum will be uploaded in OIL’s E-Tender Portal in the Tab 
“Technical Rfx” and under External Area - “Amendments” folder. The 
Company may, at its discretion, extend the deadline for bid submission. 
Bidders are expected to take the Addendum into account in preparation and 
submission of their bid. Bidders are to check from time to time the E-Tender 
portal [“Technical RFx” Tab and under the folder “Amendments”] for any 

--- PAGE 11 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 11 of 273 
 
 
amendments to the bid documents before submission of their bids. No 
separate intimation shall be sent to the Bidders. 
 
5.0 PREPARATION OF BIDS: 
5.1 Language of Bids: The bid prepared by the bidder and all correspondence 
and documents relating to the bid exchanged by the Bidder and the OIL shall 
be written in English language. Supporting documents and printed literature 
furnished by the Bidder may be in another language provided they are 
accompanied by an accurate translation of the relevant passages in English, 
duly authenticated by local chamber of Commerce of bidder’s country, in 
which case, for purposes of interpretation of the bid, the translation shall 
prevail. 
 
5.2 Bidder’s/Agent’s Name & address: Bidders should indicate in their bids their 
detailed postal address including the Fax/Telephone/Cell Phone Nos. and E-
mail address. Similar information should also be provided in respect of their 
authorized Agents in India, if any. 
 
5.3 Documents comprising the bid:  
 
5.3.1 Bids are invited under Single Stage Two Bid System. The bid to be 
uploaded by the Bidder in OIL’s E-Tender portal shall comprise of the 
following components: 
 
(A) Technical Bid (to be uploaded in “Technical Attachments” tab): 
a) Complete technical details of the services offered. 
b) Documentary evidence established in accordance with Clause No. 8.0. 
c) Bid Security Declaration  
d) Copy of Bid Form without indicating prices in Proforma-I. 
e) Statement of Non-compliance as per Proforma - II.  
f) Copy of Priced Bid without indicating prices. 
g) Integrity Pact digitally signed by OIL’s competent personnel as Part-VI.  
h) Proforma-IV attached with the bid document to be signed by the bidders 
Authorized representative.  
i) All Other relevant Undertakings and Proformas as applicable as part of 
Bid. 
 
Note: No price should be mentioned in the “Technical Attachments” tab. 
 
(B) The Price Bid as per the Price Bid Format shall be uploaded in “Notes 
and Attachments” tab.  
 
Note: The Priced Bid shall contain the prices along with the currency quoted 
and any other commercial information pertaining to the service offered. 
 
6.0 BID FORM: The bidder shall complete the Bid Form and upload the same 
along with their bid.   

--- PAGE 12 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 12 of 273 
 
 
 
7.0  BID PRICE: 
7.1 Prices must be quoted by the Bidders online as per the price bid format 
available in OIL’s E-Tender Portal under “Notes & Attachment” Tab. Prices 
must be quoted by the bidders as per the Price/Bidding format. 
 
7.2 Prices quoted by the successful bidder must remain firm during its 
performance of the Contract and is not subject to variation on any account, 
except as otherwise mentioned in the bid document. 
 
7.3 All duties (except customs duty which will be borne by the Company) and 
taxes (excluding GST) including Corporate Income Tax, Personal Tax, Assam 
Entry Tax etc. and other Cess/levies payable by the successful bidder under 
the Contract for which this Bid Document is being issued, shall be included 
in the rates, prices and total Bid Price submitted by the bidder and the 
evaluation and comparison of bids shall be made considering the quoted GST 
in the Price Bid Format. For example, personal taxes and/or any corporate 
taxes arising out of the profits on the contract as per rules of the country 
shall be borne by the bidder. 
 
8.0 DOCUMENTS ESTABLISHING BIDDER'S ELIGIBILITY AND 
QUALIFICATIONS: These are listed in BID EVALUATION CRITERIA (BEC), of 
the tender documents. 
 
9.0 BID SECURITY: The Bid Security is required to protect the Company against 
the risk of Bidder's conduct. In this regard, the bidders shall submit along 
with their bid a signed “Bid Security Declaration” (Proforma-V). Any bid not 
secured in accordance with Proforma-V above shall be rejected by the 
Company as non-responsive. 
 
10.0 PERIOD OF VALIDITY OF BIDS 
10.1 Bids shall remain valid as per the requirement mentioned in forwarding 
letter from the date of closing of bid prescribed by the Company. Bids of 
shorter validity will be rejected as being non-responsive. If nothing is 
mentioned by the bidder in their bid about the bid validity, it will be 
presumed that the bid is valid for 120 days from Original Bid Closing Date. 
 
10.2 In exceptional circumstances, the Company may solicit the Bidder's consent 
to an extension of the period of validity. The request and the response 
thereto shall be made in writing through Fax or e-mail. A Bidder may refuse 
the request. A Bidder granting the request will neither be required nor 
permitted to modify their Bid. 
 
 
 
 
 
11.0 SIGNING & SUBMISSION OF BIDS: 
11.1  Signing of bids: 

--- PAGE 13 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 13 of 273 
 
 
 
11.1.1  Bids are to be submitted online through OIL’s E-procurement portal with 
digital signature. The bid and all attached documents should be digitally 
signed by the bidder using “Class 3” digital certificates with Organization’s 
Name [e-commerce application (Certificate with personal verification and 
Organization Name)] as per Indian IT Act 2000 obtained from the licensed 
Certifying Authorities operating under the Root Certifying Authority of India 
(RCAI), Controller of Certifying Authorities (CCA) of India before bid is 
uploaded. Digital Signature Certificates having Bidder’s Name in the 
“Organization Name” field are only acceptable. Digital Signature Certificate 
having “Organization Name” field other than Bidder’s Name shall be rejected 
summarily.  
The bid including all uploaded documents shall be digitally signed by duly 
authorized representative of the bidder holding a Power of Attorney to bind 
the Bidder to the contract. 
 
If any modifications are made to a document after attaching digital 
signature, the digital signature shall again be attached to such documents 
before uploading the same. The Power of Attorney shall be submitted by 
bidder.  
In case the digital signature is not of “Class-3” with organization name, the 
bid will be rejected. Bidder is responsible for ensuring the validity of digital 
signature and its proper usage by their employees. 
 
11.1.2  The original and all copies of the bid shall be typed or written in indelible 
inks. Since bids are to be submitted ONLINE with digital signature, manual 
signature is NOT relevant. The letter of authorization (as per Proforma-IV) 
shall be indicated by written Power of Attorney accompanying the Bid.  
 
11.1.3  Any physical documents submitted by bidders shall contain no 
interlineations, white fluid erasures or overwriting except as necessary to 
correct errors made by the Bidder, in which case such correction shall be 
initialed by the person or persons who has/have digitally signed the Bid. 
 
11.1.4  Any Bid, which is incomplete, ambiguous, or not in compliance with the 
Bidding process shall be rejected. 
 
11.2  Submission of bids: 
 
The tender is processed under Single Stage Two Bid system. Bidder shall 
submit the Technical bid and Priced bid along with all the Annexures and 
Proformas (wherever applicable) and copies of documents in electronic form 
through OIL’s e-procurement portal within the Bid Closing Date & Time 
stipulated in the e-tender. For submission of Bids online at OIL’s E-Tender 
Portal, detailed instructions is available in “User Manual” available in OIL’s 
E-Tender Portal. Guidelines for bid submission are also provided in the 
“Forwarding Letter”. The Technical Bid is to be submitted as per Terms of 
Reference/Technical Specifications of the bid document and Priced Bid as 
per the Price Schedule. The Technical Bid should be uploaded in the 

--- PAGE 14 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 14 of 273 
 
 
“Technical Attachment” Tab Page only. Prices to be quoted as per Price Bid 
Format and should be uploaded as ‘Attachment’ under “Notes & 
Attachments” Tab. No price should be given in the “Technical Attachment”, 
otherwise bid shall be rejected. The priced bid submitted in physical form 
shall not be considered. However, the following documents in one set should 
necessarily be submitted in physical form in sealed envelope super-scribing 
the Tender no., Brief Description of services and Bid Closing/Opening date 
& Time along with the bidder’s name and should be submitted to GM-
Contracts, Oil India Ltd., Duliajan-786602 (Assam) on or before 12.45 Hrs 
(IST) on the bid closing date indicated in the IFB: 
 
a) Printed catalogue and literature if called for in the bid document. 
b) Any other document required to be submitted in original as per bid 
document. 
  Documents sent through E-mail/Fax/Telephonic method will not be 
considered. 
 
11.2.1  All the conditions of the contract to be made with the successful bidder are 
given in various Sections of the Bid Document. Bidders are requested to 
state their non-compliance to each clause as per Proforma-II of the bid 
document and the same should be uploaded along with the Technical Bid.  
 
11.2.2  Timely delivery of the documents in physical form as stated in Para 11.2 
above is the responsibility of the bidder. Bidders should send the same 
through Registered Post or by Courier Services or by hand delivery to the 
Officer in Charge of the particular tender before the Bid Closing Date and 
Time. Company shall not be responsible for any postal delay/transit loss. 
 
11.2.3  Bids received through the e-procurement portal shall only be accepted. Bids 
received in any other form shall not be accepted. 
 
12.0  DEADLINE FOR SUBMISSION OF BIDS: 
12.1   Bids should be submitted online as per the online tender submission 
deadline. Bidders will not be permitted by System to make any changes in 
their bid/quote after the bid submission deadline is reached. Bidders are 
requested to take note of this and arrange to submit their bids within the 
submission deadline to avoid last minute rush/network problems. 
 
12.2   No bid can be submitted after the submission dead line is reached. The 
system time displayed on the E-Procurement web page shall decide the 
submission dead line.  
 
12.3   The documents in physical form as stated in Para 11.2 must be received by 
Company at the address specified in the “Forwarding Letter” on or before 
12.45 Hrs (IST) on the Bid Closing Date mentioned in the "Forwarding 
Letter". Timely delivery of the same at the address mentioned in the 
Forwarding Letter is the responsibility of the Bidders. 
 

--- PAGE 15 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 15 of 273 
 
 
13.0   LATE BIDS: Bidders are advised in their own interest to ensure that their 
bids are uploaded in system much before the closing date and time of the 
bid. The documents in physical form if received by the Company after the 
deadline for submission prescribed by the Company shall be rejected and 
shall be returned to the Bidders in unopened condition immediately. 
 
14.0  MODIFICATION AND WITHDRAWAL OF BIDS 
14.1  The Bidder after submission of Bid may modify or withdraw its Bid prior to 
Bid Closing Date & Time in the e-portal using Digital Signature by the 
person or persons who has/have digitally signed the Bid. Withdrawal or 
modification of bid through physical correspondence shall not be considered 
and accepted. 
 
14.2   No Bid can be modified or withdrawn subsequent to the deadline for 
submission of Bids. 
 
14.3   No Bid can be withdrawn in the interval between the deadline for 
submission of Bids and the expiry of the period of Bid Validity specified by 
the Bidder on the Bid Form. In case any bidder withdraws their bid within 
the bid validity period, as declared in the “Bid Security Declaration Form”, 
bidder shall be suspended for the period of two years. This suspension of 
two year shall be automatic without conducting any enquiry. 
 
15.0  EXTENSION OF BID SUBMISSION DATE: Normally no request for 
extension of Bid Closing Date & Time will be entertained. However, OIL at 
its discretion, may extend the Bid Closing Date and/or Time due to any 
reasons. 
 
16.0   BID OPENING AND EVALUATION: 
16.1   Company will open the Bids, including submission made pursuant to clause 
11.2, in presence of Bidder's representatives who choose to attend at the 
date, time and place mentioned in the Forwarding Letter. However, an 
authorization letter (as per Proforma-III) from the Bidder must be produced 
by the Bidder's representative at the time of Bid Opening. Unless this Letter 
is presented, the representative will not be allowed to attend the Bid 
Opening. The Bidder's representatives who are allowed to attend the Bid 
Opening shall sign a register evidencing their attendance. Only one 
representative against each Bid will be allowed to attend.  
 
16.2  In technical bid opening, only “Technical Attachment” will be opened. 
Bidders therefore should ensure that technical bid is uploaded in the 
“Technical Attachment” Tab Page only in the E-portal. 
 
16.3   In case of any unscheduled holiday or Bandh on the Bid Opening Date, the 
Bids will be opened on the next full working day. Accordingly, Bid Closing 
Date/time will get extended up to the next working day and time. 
 
16.4   Bids which have been withdrawn pursuant to clause 14.0 shall not be 
opened. Company will examine bids to determine whether they are 

--- PAGE 16 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 16 of 273 
 
 
complete, whether requisite Bid Securities have been furnished, whether 
documents have been digitally signed and whether the bids are generally in 
order. 
 
16.5   At bid opening, Company will announce the Bidder's names, written 
notifications of bid modifications or withdrawal, if any, the presence of 
requisite Bid Security Declaration and such other details as the Company 
may consider appropriate. 
 
16.6   Normally no clarifications shall be sought from the Bidders. However, for 
assisting in the evaluation of the bids especially on the issues where the 
Bidder confirms compliance in the evaluation and contradiction exists on 
the same issues due to lack of required supporting documents in the Bid 
(i.e. document is deficient or missing), or due to some statement at other 
place of the Bid (i.e. reconfirmation of confirmation) or vice versa, 
clarifications may be sought by OIL. In all the above situations, the Bidder 
will not be allowed to change the basic structure of the Bid already 
submitted by them and no change in the price or substance of the Bid shall 
be sought, offered or permitted. 
 
16.7   Prior to the detailed evaluation, Company will determine the substantial 
responsiveness of each bid to the requirement of the Bid Documents. For 
purpose of these paragraphs, a substantially responsive bid is one, which 
conforms to all the terms and conditions of the Bid Document without 
material deviations or reservation. A material deviation or reservation is one 
which affects in any substantial way the scope, quality, or performance of 
work, or which limits in any substantial way, in-consistent way with the Bid 
Documents, the Company’s right or the bidder’s obligations under the 
contract, and the rectification of which deviation or reservation would affect 
unfairly the competitive position of other bidders presenting substantial 
responsive bids. The Company's determination of Bid's responsiveness is to 
be based on the contents of the Bid itself without recourse to extrinsic 
evidence. 
 
16.8   A Bid determined as not substantially responsive will be rejected by the 
Company and may not subsequently be made responsive by the Bidder by 
correction of the non-conformity. 
 
16.9   The Company may waive minor informality or nonconformity or irregularity 
in a Bid, which does not constitute a material deviation, provided such 
waiver, does not prejudice or affect the relative ranking of any Bidder. 
 
17.0   OPENING OF PRICED BIDS: 
17.1  In case of composite bid system, Price bids will be opened on the scheduled 
bid closing date itself.  
 
17.2  In case of two bid system, Company will open the Priced Bids of the techno-
commercially qualified Bidders on a specific date in presence of 
representatives of the qualified bidders. The techno-commercially qualified 

--- PAGE 17 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 17 of 273 
 
 
Bidders will be intimated about the Priced Bid Opening Date & Time in 
advance.  
 
17.3  In case of any unscheduled holiday or Bandh on the Priced Bid Opening 
Date, the Bids will be opened on the next working day. 
 
17.4   The Company will examine the Price quoted by Bidders to determine 
whether they are complete, any computational errors have been made, the 
documents have been properly signed, and the bids are generally in order. 
 
  Arithmetical errors will be rectified on the following basis. If there is a 
discrepancy between the unit price and the total price (that is obtained by 
multiplying the unit price and quantity) the unit price shall prevail and the 
total price shall be corrected accordingly. If there is a discrepancy between 
words, and figures, the amount in words will prevail. If any Bidder does not 
accept the correction of the errors, their Bid will be rejected.  
 
18.0   EVALUATION AND COMPARISON OF BIDS: The Company will evaluate 
and compare the bids as per BID EVALUATION CRITERIA (BEC) of the 
Tender Documents. 
 
18.1   Discounts/Rebates: 
 
18.1.1 Unconditional discounts/rebates, if any, given in the bid will be considered 
for evaluation.     
 
18.1.2 Post bid or conditional discounts/rebates offered by any bidder shall not be 
considered for evaluation of bids. However, if the lowest bidder happens to 
be the final acceptable bidder for award of contract, and if they have offered 
any discounts/rebates, the contract shall be awarded after considering such 
discounts/rebates. 
 
19.0   CONTACTING THE COMPANY: 
19.1   Except as otherwise provided in Clause 16.0 above, no Bidder shall contact 
Company on any matter relating to its bid, from the time of the bid opening 
to the time the Contract is awarded except as required by Company vide 
sub-clause 16.6. 
 
19.2   An effort by a Bidder to influence the Company in the Company's bid 
evaluation, bid comparison or Contract award decisions may result in the 
rejection of their bid. 
 
20.0   AWARD OF CONTRACT: 
20.1   Award criteria: The Company will award the Contract to the successful 
Bidder whose bid has been determined to be substantially responsive and 
has been determined as the lowest evaluated bid, provided further that the 
Bidder is determined to be qualified to perform the Contract satisfactorily. 
 

--- PAGE 18 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 18 of 273 
 
 
21.0   COMPANY'S RIGHT TO ACCEPT OR REJECT ANY BID: Company reserves 
the right to accept or reject any or all bids and to annul the bidding process 
and reject all bids, at any time prior to award of contract, without thereby 
incurring any liability to the affected bidder, or bidders or any obligation to 
inform the affected bidder of the grounds for Company’s action.  
 
22.0   NOTIFICATION OF AWARD: 
22.1   Prior to the expiry of the period of bid validity or extended validity, Company 
will notify the successful Bidder in writing by registered letter or by fax or E-
mail (to be confirmed in writing by registered/couriered letter) that its Bid 
has been accepted. 
 
22.2   The notification of award will constitute the formation of the Contract. 
 
23.0  PERFORMANCE SECURITY: Successful bidder has to submit Performance 
Security amount as mentioned in Forwarding Letter, within 02 Weeks from 
the date of issue of Letter of Award (LOA). 
 
23.1  a. The Performance Security should be submitted in the form of 
irrevocable Bank Guarantee (as per Proforma-VII) issued by Nationalized or 
Scheduled Bank in favour of M/s Oil India Limited and payable at 
DULIAJAN. The Bank Guarantee must be on Non-Judicial Stamp Paper of 
requisite value as per Indian Stamp Act purchased in the name of Banker. 
Duly filled ‘Undertaking’ towards details of BG (Format attached as 
Proforma-XII) must be submitted along with original copy of PBG. 
 
b. Alternately, the Performance Security can also be paid through Bank 
Draft/Cashier’s Cheque/Banker’s Cheque/Fixed Deposit Receipt (Account 
OIL INDIA LIMITED)/irrevocable Letter of Credit/NEFT/RTGS/Electronic 
Fund Transfer (subject to credit in OIL’s account within prescribed time) to 
designated account of OIL.  
 
i. If the Performance Security is submitted in the form of Bank 
Draft, Banker’s Cheque, Cashier’s Cheque, Fixed Deposit 
Receipt or Letter of Credit, the same should be in favour of “Oil 
India Limited” payable at Duliajan.  
 
ii. Performance Security amount through NEFT or RTGS mode 
may be deposited on or before bid closing date and time to the 
following designated OIL’s bank account: 
 
 Bank Details of Beneficiary: OIL INDIA LIMITED 
a Bank Name STATE BANK OF INDIA 
b Branch Name Duliajan 
c Branch Address Duliajan, Dist-Dibrugarh 
d Bank Account No. 10494832599 
e Type of Account Current Account 
f IFSC Code SBIN0002053 
g MICR Code 786002302 

--- PAGE 19 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 19 of 273 
 
 
h SWIFT Code SBININBB479 
 
If the Performance security is submitted through NEFT or RTGS mode, the 
bidder shall submit details such as UTR No., Contract No., Bidder’s name 
& Deposited Amount etc.   
 
c. In case of Bidders submitting Performance Security in the form of 
Bank Guarantee/Bank Draft/Cashier’s Cheque/Banker’s Cheque/Fixed 
Deposit Receipt/Letter of Credit, the original hard copy of Performance 
Security shall be submitted within the time frame as stipulated in the LOA. 
 
d. No other mode of payment other than the mode covered under point 
nos. a & b will be accepted by the Company.  
 
23.2 Performance Security shall not accrue any interest during its period of 
validity or extended validity. 
 
23.3   The Bank Guarantee issuing bank branch must ensure the following: 
The Bank Guarantee issued by the bank must be routed through SFMS 
platform as per the following details: 
 
(i)  MT 760/MT 760 COV for issuance of bank guarantee. 
(ii)  MT 760/MT 767 COV for amendment of bank guarantee. 
 
[Tender Number should reflect in the SFMS text under MT 760/MT 760 
COV] 
The above message/intimation shall be sent through SFMS by the BG 
issuing Bank branch to HDFC Bank, Duliajan Branch, IFS Code – 
HDFC0002118; SWIFT Code - HDFCINBBCAL. Branch Address: HDFC 
Bank Limited, Duliajan Branch, Utopia Complex, BOC Gate, Jayanagar, 
Duliajan, Dibrugarh, PIN – 786602. The Bank details are as under: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23.4  This Performance Security must be valid for 90 (Ninety) days after the date 
of expiry of the contract period/defect liability period (if any). In the event of 
Bank Details of Beneficiary 
A Bank Name  HDFC BANK LTD 
B Branch Name  DULIAJAN  
C Branch Address Utopia Complex, BOC Gate, 
Jayanagar, Duliajan, Dibrugarh, PIN 
– 786602 
D Banker Account No. 21182320000016 
E Type of Account Current Account 
F IFSC Code HDFC0002118  
G MICR Code 786240302  
H SWIFT Code HDFCINBBCAL  

--- PAGE 20 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 20 of 273 
 
 
contract being extended within the provisions of the contract agreement, the 
contractor will have to extend suitably the validity of the "Security Deposit" 
for the extended period. 
 
23.5 The Performance Security Deposit will be refunded to the Contractor after 
90 (Ninety) days of satisfactory completion of works/defect liability period (if 
any) under the contract (including extension, if any), but a part or whole of 
which shall be used by the Company in realization of liquidated damages or 
claims, if any or for adjustment of compensation or loss due to the 
Company for any reason. 
 
24.0  SIGNING OF CONTRACT: 
24.1   At the same time as the Company notifies the successful Bidder that its Bid 
has been accepted, the Company will either call the successful Bidder for 
signing of the agreement or send the Contract Form provided in the Bid 
Documents, along with the General & Special Conditions of Contract, 
Technical Specifications, Schedule of Rates incorporating all agreements 
agreed between the two parties. 
 
24.2   The successful Bidder shall sign and date the contract and return it to the 
Company after receipt of LOA. Till the contract is signed, the LOA issued to 
the successful bidder shall remain binding amongst the two parties.  
 
24.3   In the event of failure on the part of the successful Bidder to sign the 
contract, OIL reserves the right to terminate the LOA issued to the 
successful Bidder and invoke the Performance Security if submitted by the 
successful Bidder. The bidder will be suspended for the period of two years. 
This suspension of two years shall be automatic without conducting any 
enquiry. 
 
25.0   CREDIT FACILITY: Bidders should indicate clearly in the Bid about 
availability of any credit facility inclusive of Government to Government 
credits indicating the applicable terms and conditions of such credit. 
 
26.0   MOBILISATION AND ADVANCE PAYMENT: 
26.1   Request for advance payment shall not be normally considered. However, 
depending on the merit and at the discretion of the Company, advance 
against mobilization charge may be given at an interest rate of 1% above the 
prevailing Bank rate (CC rate) of SBI from the date of payment of the 
advance till recovery/refund. 
 
26.2   Advance payment agreed to by the Company shall be paid only against 
submission of an acceptable bank guarantee whose value should be 
equivalent to the amount of advance plus the amount of interest covering 
the period of advance. Bank guarantee shall be valid for 2 months beyond 
completion of mobilization and the same may be invoked in the event of 
Contractor’s failure to mobilize as per agreement. 
 

--- PAGE 21 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 21 of 273 
 
 
26.3   In the event of any extension to the mobilization period, Contractor shall 
have to enhance the value of the bank guarantee to cover the interest for 
the extended period and also to extend the validity of bank guarantee 
accordingly. 
 
27.0  INTEGRITY PACT: 
27.1   OIL shall be entering into an Integrity Pact with the Bidders as per format 
enclosed vide Part-VI of the Bid Document. The Integrity Pact has been duly 
signed digitally by OIL’s competent signatory and uploaded in the OIL’s e-
portal. The Integrity Pact shall be returned by the bidder (along with the 
technical Bid) duly signed by the same signatory who signed the Bid i.e. 
who is duly authorized to sign the Bid. Uploading the Integrity Pact in the 
OIL’s E-portal with digital signature will be construed that all pages of the 
Integrity Pact has been signed by the bidder’s authorized signatory who has 
signed the bid. If any bidder refuses to sign Integrity Pact or declines to 
submit the Integrity Pact, their bid shall be rejected straightway. 
 
27.2  OIL has appointed Shri Sutanu Behuria, IAS (Retd.), Shri Rudhra 
Gangadharan, IAS (Retd.) and Shri Om Prakash Singh, IPS (Retd.) as 
Independent External Monitors (IEM) for a period of 03 (Three) years to 
oversee implementation of Integrity Pact in OIL. Bidders may contact the 
Independent External Monitors for any matter relating to the Integrity Pact 
at the following addresses:  
 
a.  Shri Sutanu Behuria, IAS (Retd.), 
 E-mail: sutanu2911@gmaiI.com  
b.  Shri Rudhra Gangadharan, IAS (Retd.), Ex-Secretary, Ministry of 
Agriculture  
 E-mail: rudhra.gangadharan@gmail.com 
c. Shri Om Prakash Singh, IPS (Retd.), Former DGP, Uttar Pradesh 
E-mail: Ops2020@rediffmail.com 
 
 
28.0 LOCAL CONDITIONS: 
It is imperative for each Bidder to be fully informed themselves of all Indian 
as well as local conditions, factors and legislation which may have any effect 
on the execution of the work covered under the Bidding Document. The 
bidders shall be deemed, prior to submitting their bids to have satisfied 
themselves of all the aspects covering the nature of the work as stipulated in 
the Bidding Document and obtain for themselves all necessary information 
as to the risks, contingencies and all other circumstances, which may 
influence or affect the various obligations under the Contract. 
 
No request will be considered for clarifications from the Company (OIL) 
regarding such conditions, factors and legislation. It is understood and 
agreed that such conditions, factors and legislation have been properly 
investigated and considered by the Bidders while submitting the Bids. 
Failure to do so shall not relieve the Bidders from responsibility to estimate 
properly the cost of performing the work within the provided timeframe. 

--- PAGE 22 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 22 of 273 
 
 
Company (OIL) will assume no responsibility for any understandings or 
representations concerning conditions made by any of their officers prior to 
award of the Contract. Company (OIL) shall not permit any Changes to the 
time schedule of the Contract or any financial adjustments arising from the 
Bidder's lack of knowledge and its effect on the cost of execution of the 
Contract. 
 
29.0 SPECIFICATIONS: Before submission of Bids, Bidders are requested to 
make themselves fully conversant with all Conditions of the Bid Document 
and other relevant information related to the works/services to be executed 
under the contract. 
 
30.0 GOODS AND SERVICES TAX: 
30.1 In view of GST Implementation from 1st July 2017, all taxes and duties 
including Excise Duty, CST/VAT, Service tax, Entry Tax and other indirect 
taxes and duties have been submerged in GST. Accordingly, reference of 
Excise Duty, Service Tax, VAT, Sales Tax, Entry Tax or any other form of 
indirect tax except of GST mentioned in the bidding document shall be 
ignored. 
 
Bidders are required to submit copy of the GST Registration Certificate while 
submitting the bids wherever GST (CGST & SGST/UTGST or IGST) is 
applicable. 
 
30.2 Bidder should also mention the Harmonised System of Nomenclature 
(HSN) and Service Accounting Codes (SAC) at the designated place in the 
Price Bid Format. 
 
30.3 Where the OIL is entitled to avail the input tax credit of GST: 
 
OIL will reimburse the GST to the Supplier of Goods/Services (Service 
Provider) at actual against submission of Invoices as per format specified in 
rules/regulation of GST to enable OIL to claim input tax credit of GST paid. 
In case of any variation in the executed quantities, the amount on which the 
GST is applicable shall be modified in same proportion. Returns and details 
required to be filled under GST laws &rules should be timely filed by supplier 
with requisite details.  
 
The input tax credit of GST quoted shall be considered for evaluation of bids, 
as per evaluation criteria of tender document. 
 
30.4  Where the OIL is not entitled to avail/take the full input tax credit of 
GST: 
 
OIL will reimburse GST to the Supplier of Goods/Services (Service Provider) 
at actual against submission of Invoices as per format specified in 
rules/regulation of GST subject to the ceiling amount of GST as quoted by 
the bidder. In case of any variation in the executed quantities (If directed 

--- PAGE 23 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 23 of 273 
 
 
and/or certified by the In-Charge) the ceiling amount on which GST is 
applicable will be modified on pro-rata basis. 
  
The bids will be evaluated based on total price including GST. 
 
30.5  It is the responsibility of the bidder to quote the correct GST rate. The 
classification of goods/services as per GST (Goods & Service Tax) Act should 
be correctly done by the contractor to ensure that input tax credit on GST 
(Goods & Service Tax) is not lost to the OIL on account of any error on the 
part of the contractor. 
 
30.6  Further, it is the responsibility of the bidders to make all possible efforts to 
make their accounting/IT system GST compliant in order to ensure 
availability of Input Tax Credit (ITC) to Oil India Ltd. 
 
30.7  GST liability, if any, on account of supply of free samples against any tender 
shall be to bidder’s account. 
 
30.8  In case the bidder is covered under Composition Scheme under GST laws, 
then bidder should quote the price inclusive of the GST (CGST & 
SGST/UTGST or IGST). Further, such bidder should mention “Cover under 
composition system” in column for GST (CGST & SGST/UTGST or IGST) of 
price schedule. 
 
30.9  OIL will prefer to deal with registered supplier of goods/services under GST. 
Therefore, bidders are requested to get themselves registered under GST, if 
not registered yet. However, in case any unregistered bidder is submitting 
their bid, their prices will be loaded with applicable GST while evaluation of 
bid. Where OIL is entitled for input credit of GST, the same will be 
considered for evaluation of bid as per evaluation methodology of tender 
document. 
 
30.10 Procurement of Specific Goods: Earlier, there is no tax incidence in case of 
import of specified goods (i.e. the goods covered under List-34 of Customs 
Notification no. 12/2012-Cus dated. 17.03.2012 as amended). Customs duty 
is not payable as per the policy. However, under GST regime, IGST Plus GST 
compensation cess (if applicable) would be leviable on such imports. Bidders 
should quote GST as inclusive considering IGST component for the imported 
Materials portion while quoting their prices on destination basis. However, 
GST rate to be specified in the price bid format. 
 
30.11 The Supplier of Goods/Services may note the Anti-profiteering Clause 
(Clause No. 12.5) of Part-I GCC and quote their prices accordingly. 
 
30.12 In case the GST rating of bidder on the GST portal/Govt. official website is 
negative/black listed, then the bid may be rejected by OIL. 
 
31.0 Purchase preference policy (linked with Local Content) (PP-LC) notified vide 
letter no. FP-20013/2/2017-FP-PNG dated 17.11.2020 of MoPNG (or as 

--- PAGE 24 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 24 of 273 
 
 
amended from time to time) [Copy of the Policy is enclosed Vide Annexure - 
I]. 
 
31.1 The participating Bidder must be incorporated in India and must maintain 
more than 20% local content for the offered services. With regard to 
calculation of local content and submission of documents during bidding & 
execution of contracts, provision of Purchase Preference Policy (Linked with 
Local Content) shall be applicable. If such local content is not maintained 
during execution of contract, OIL reserves the right to invoke the 
Performance Securities submitted by the bidding company.  
 
31.2 In all National Competitive tenders, only Class-I local suppliers and Class-II 
local suppliers shall be eligible to bid. Purchase preference will be given as 
per PP-LC policy to Class-I local suppliers only.  
 
[Class-I local supplier' means a supplier or service provider, whose goods, 
services or works offered for procurement, has local content equal to or more 
than 50% as defined in PP-LC policy; Class-II local supplier': means a 
supplier or service provider, whose goods, services or works offered for 
procurement, has local content more than 20% but less than 50%, as 
defined under PP-LC policy] 
 
31.3 All the bidders (i.e. Class I Local supplier and Class II Local supplier) shall 
provide the percentage of Local content in their bid irrespective of whether 
they are availing or not availing Purchase preference under PP-LC policy and 
are also required to submit the requisite documents as per requirement of 
PP-LC policy notified vide letter no. FP-20013/2/2017-FP-PNG dated 
17.11.2020 of MoPNG (or as amended from time to time).  
 

--- PAGE 25 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 25 of 273 
 
BID EVALUATION CRITERIA (BEC)/BID REJECTION CRITERIA (BRC) 
 
BID EVALUATION CRITERIA (BEC): The bid shall conform generally to the 
specifications and terms and conditions given in this bid document.  Bids shall 
be rejected in case the services offered do not conform to required parameters 
stipulated in the technical specifications. Notwithstanding the general 
conformity of the bids to the stipulated specifications, the following 
requirements will have to be particularly met by the Bidders without which 
the same will be considered as non-responsive and rejected. 
 
1.0  FINANCIAL CRITERIA 
1.1 Annual Financial Turnover of the bidder during any of preceding 03 (Three) 
financial/accounting years from the original bid closing date should be at least  
₹ 1,05,04,275/- (Rupees One Crore Five Lakh Four Thousand Two Hundred 
Seventy-Five Only). 
1.2 "Net worth of bidder must be positive for preceding financial/accounting year. 
 NOTE:   
 The Net worth to be considered against Clause 1.2 above, should be read in 
conjunction with the definition of Net worth as mentioned in Section 2 (57) of 
the Companies Act, 2013. 
 Notes to BEC Clause 1.1 above:  
 
a. For proof of Annual Turnover & Net worth, any one of the following 
documents/photocopies must be submitted along with the bid:  
 
(i) Audited Balance Sheet along with Profit & Loss account.  
 
                                               OR 
  
(ii) A certificate issued by a practicing Chartered/Cost Accountant (with 
Membership Number and Firm Registration Number), as per format 
prescribed in PROFORMA XV.  
 
NOTE:  
 
i) Mention of UDIN (Unique Document Identification Number) is mandatory for 
all Certificates issued w.e.f. February 1, 2019 by Chartered Accountant in 
Practice. 
   
 ii) In case the Audited Balance sheet and Profit & Loss Account submitted 
along with the bid are in currencies other than INR the bidder shall have to 
convert the figures in equivalent INR considering the prevailing conversion 
rate on the date on which the Audited Balance Sheet and Profit & Loss Account 
is signed. A CA Certificate is to be submitted by the bidder regarding converted 
figures in equivalent INR. Else, the Audited Balance Sheet and Profit & Loss 
Account shall be evaluated by considering the BC selling rate declared by State 

--- PAGE 26 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 26 of 273 
 
Bank of India (on the date on which the Audited Balance Sheet and Profit & 
Loss Account is signed) for conversion to INR. 
b. Considering the time required for preparation of Financial Statements, if 
the last date of preceding financial/accounting year falls within the preceding 
six months reckoned from the original bid closing date and the Financial 
Statements of the preceding financial/accounting year are not available with 
the bidder, then the financial turnover of the previous three financial 
/accounting years excluding the preceding financial/accounting year will be 
considered. In such cases, the Net worth of the previous financial/accounting 
year excluding the preceding financial/accounting year will be considered. 
However, the bidder has to submit an undertaking in support of the same 
along with their technical bid as per PROFORMA-X.  
  
c. In case the bidder is a Central Govt. Organization/PSU/State Govt. 
Organization/Semi-State Govt. Organization or any other Central/State Govt. 
Undertaking, where the auditor is appointed only after the approval of 
Comptroller and Auditor General of India and the Central Government, their 
certificates may be accepted even though FRN is not available. However, 
bidder to provide documentary evidence for the same.  
 
d. In case the bidder is a Government Department, they are exempted from 
submission of document mentioned under para a. and b. above.  
 
e. Bid will be rejected if not accompanied with adequate documentary proof in 
support of Annual turnover and Net worth as mentioned in clause 1.1. 
 
f. In case the bidder is a sister subsidiary or co-subsidiary company or 
subsidiary (should be a 100% subsidiary of the parent/ultimate 
parent/holding company) who does not meet financial criteria by itself and 
submits bid based on the financial strength of its parent/ultimate 
parent/holding company, then following documents need to be submitted 
along with the technical bid: 
(i) Audited Balance Sheet and Profit Loss Account of the parent/ultimate 
parent/holding company. 
(ii) Corporate Guarantee of parent/ultimate parent/Holding company (as 
per format enclosed as Annexure-XX by the authorized officials. 
(iii) Documents to substantiate that the bidder is a 100% subsidiary 
company of the parent/ultimate/holding parent company.  
(iv) Documents proving that net worth of the parent/ultimate parent 
company is positive for the accounting year preceding the bid closing date”. 
 
NOTES:  
OIL reserves the right to ask for any Original or other relevant document 
to verify the certification.   
2.0 TECHNICAL CRITERIA 
2.1 Bidder must be incorporated in India and must maintain more than 20% local 
content for the offered services.  

--- PAGE 27 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 27 of 273 
 
Regarding calculation of local content and submission of documents during 
bidding & execution of contracts, provision of Purchase preference policy-linked 
with Local Content (PP-LC) notified vide letter no. FP-20013/2/2017-FP-PNG 
dated 17th November, 2020 of MoPNG shall be applicable as per the 
Notification(s) and any amendment thereof. 
 
If such local content is not maintained during execution of contract, OIL 
reserves the right to invoke the Performance Securities submitted by the 
bidding and supporting companies.  
 
A copy of Certificate of Incorporation must be provided along with the Bid. 
 
2.2 Work Experience of the Bidder: 
2.2.1 Bidder must have experience of similar work in India or abroad in the last 
7(seven) years reckoned from the Original Bid Closing Date fulfilling the 
following conditions:  
i) At least 01 (one) similar work in Oil & Gas industry. 
 
ii) Must have successfully designed, hosted, implemented and maintained 
at least 01 (one) similar work on cloud hosted infrastructure  
 
iii) At least 01 (one) similar work with at least 1000 end users at client 
under a single contract.  
 
“SIMILAR work" mentioned above means “Supply/Development, 
implementation & commissioning of the proposed HSE Software.” 
 
For proof of requisite Experience (refer Clause No. 2.2.1 above), the following 
documents/ photocopy (self-attested/attested) must be submitted along with 
the bid:  
 
A. Contract/Work order document showing detailed scope of Job and 
quantum; 
AND 
  
B. Job Completion Certificate showing:  
(i) Number of job done  
(ii) Nature of job done along with Work order no./Contract no.  
(iii) Contract period and date of completion. 
  
(iv) Bidder must submit Certificate from CEO/Country Head / Chief 
Operating Officer/Authorized Signatory/ Partner holding the Power 
of Attorney of the organization and client certificate to substantiate 
the number of users. 
OR 
 
C.  SES (Service Entry Sheet)/Certificate of Payment (COP) issued by 
the company indicating the following:  

--- PAGE 28 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 28 of 273 
 
 
(i) Work order no./Contract no.  
(ii) No of jobs done  
(iii) Period of Service  
(iv) Nature of Service  
    (v) Bidder must submit Certificate from CEO/Country Head /Chief 
Operating Officer/Authorized Signatory/ Partner holding the Power 
of Attorney of the organization and client certificate to substantiate 
the number of users. 
    (vi) Any other document(s) which can substantiate the experience  
 
Only Letter of Intent (LOI)/Letter of Award (LOA), or Work Order(s) are not 
acceptable as evidence.  
 
Mere award of contract(s) will not be counted towards experience. Successful 
completion of the awarded contract(s) to the extent of volume/value, as 
stipulated under Clause Nos. 2.2.1 shall only be treated as acceptable 
experience.  
 
2.2.2Bidder must be the IPR (Intellectual Property Rights) Owner / Original 
Licensor OR Subsidiary of IPR owner / Authorized implementation 
partner by IPR owner of the software proposed for implementation. (Original 
Licensor / IPR Owner is defined as the company holding software licensing 
rights and controlling software development cycle). 
In this regard Certificate from the CEO/Country Head / Chief Operating 
Officer/Authorized Signatory/Partner holding the Power of Attorney of the 
organization must be submitted by the bidder. If the bidder is Authorized 
Implementation Partner or Subsidiary of the Original Licensor / IPR owner, 
the bidder is required to submit the proof of being the Authorized 
Implementation Partner or subsidiary of the original licensor / IPR Owner 
along with their bid submission like Letter of Authorization/Comfort Letter 
from the Original Licensor /OEM.  
 
2.2.3 The proposed software by the bidder must have undergone at least 2 (two) 
upgrades and/or updates over the last 2 years reckoned from the Original 
Bid Closing Date. In this regard a self-certification must be provided by the 
CEO/Country Head / Chief Operating Officer/Authorized Signatory/Partner 
holding the Power of Attorney of the organization along with build 
notes/release notes to substantiate the changes in each version 
upgrade/update. 
   In this regard bidder must submit Certificate from CEO/Country Head /  
 Chief Operating Officer/Authorized Signatory/ Partner holding the Power 
 of Attorney of the organization, job completion certificate, work order no. and 
client certificate to substantiate the number of users. 
 
2.2.4 Bidder should take responsibility of provisioning cloud infrastructure, 
hardware requirements, software requirements and associated licenses etc. to 
implement the end-to-end solution successfully. In this regard bidder must 

--- PAGE 29 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 29 of 273 
 
submit Certificate from CEO/Country Head / Chief Operating 
Officer/Authorized Signatory/Partner holding the Power of Attorney of the 
organization as per attached PROFORMA XXII. 
2.2.5 Bidder should submit a ‘No Deviation Certificate’ against the functional 
requirements mentioned in Scope of Work and Special Terms and Condition 
of the Tender. In this regard, bidder must submit Certificate from 
CEO/Country Head / Chief Operating Officer/Authorized Signatory/Partner 
holding the Power of Attorney of the organization as per PROFORMA II. 
2.2.6 The bidder must submit the CVs of all the Team Members proposed to be 
deployed as per Section 8 of the Scope of Work / Special Terms & Conditions for this 
project as per attached PROFORMA XXI duly certified by CEO/Country Head / Chief 
Operating Officer OR by any Partner holding the Power of Attorney along with the 
bid. 
2.2.7 Bidder should provide an undertaking of providing manpower as per 
Manpower requirement Section 8 of the Scope of Work / Special Terms & 
Conditions.  In this regard, bidder must submit a Certificate from 
CEO/MD/Authorized Signatory or POA of the organization as per attached 
PROFORMA XXII. 
Notes to BEC Clause 2.2.1 above:  
(A) Evaluation for ‘Start-Ups’ 
 
Following evaluation methodology shall be adopted for the bidders who are 
recognised as ‘Start-ups’ by DPIIT (Department for Promotion of Industry and 
Internal Trade), Ministry of Commerce & Industry, Govt. of India. 
 
 They are exempted from complying Annual Financial Turnover Criteria 
mentioned in Clause No. 1.0 
 
 They must have relevant experience of “Supply/Development, 
implementation & commissioning of the proposed HSE Software” as 
mentioned above in BEC Clause No. 2.2.1 
 
 Bidders claiming above exemptions as “Start-Ups” must substantiate 
same with a certificate issued by DPIIT which should be valid as on bid closing 
date.  
 
(B) For proof of requisite Experience documents mentioned in Clause No. 
2.2.1 above must be submitted along with the bid:  
 
2.2.8 Following work experience will also be taken into consideration:  
 
(i) If the prospective bidder has executed contract in which similar work is also 
a component of the contract.  
 

--- PAGE 30 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 30 of 273 
 
(ii) In case the start date of the requisite experience is prior to the preceding 
07 (seven) years’ period reckoned from the original bid closing date but 
completion is within the preceding 07 (seven) years’ period reckoned from the 
original bid closing date. 
 
Proof of work experience against Para 2.2.5 (i) and (ii) above, to satisfy a) 
similar work b) minimum prescribed value/quantity/period c) prescribed 
period of 07 years, to be submitted as below: 
  
i) In case requisite experience is against OIL’s Contract: Bidder must submit 
the breakup of similar work and its quantity, period mentioning SES No. and 
copies of all relevant SES.  
 
ii) In case requisite experience is NOT against OIL’s Contract: Bidder must 
submit the breakup of similar work and its quantity/volume executed within 
the prescribed period of 07 (Seven) years reckoned from the original bid closing 
date. The breakup must be certified by the end user or a certificate issued by 
a practicing Chartered/Cost Accountant Firm (with Membership Number & 
Firm Registration Number).  
 
2.3 ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA IN CASE BIDS ARE SUBMITTED ON THE BASIS 
OF EXPERIENCE OF THE PARENT/SUBSIDIARY COMPANY: 
 
Offers of those bidders who themselves do not meet the experience criteria as 
stipulated in clause nos. 2.2 above  can also be considered provided the bidder 
is a subsidiary company of the parent company [supporting company] in 
which the parent company has 100% stake or parent company can also be 
considered on the strength of its 100% subsidiary [supporting company]. 
However, the parent/subsidiary company of the bidder should on its own meet 
the experience as stipulated in the BEC and should not rely for meeting the 
experience criteria on its sister subsidiary/co-subsidiary company or through 
any other arrangement like Technical Collaboration agreement. 
 
In case of subsidiary company dependent upon the experience of the parent 
company or vice-versa with a view to ensure commitment and involvement of 
the parent/subsidiary company for successful execution of the contract, the 
participating bidder should enclose an Agreement between the parent and the 
subsidiary company or vice-versa and Parent/Subsidiary Guarantee from the 
parent/subsidiary company to OIL for fulfilling the obligation under the 
Agreement, along with the technical bid. 
 
In both the situations mentioned above, following conditions are required to 
be fulfilled/documents to be submitted: 
 
(i) Undertaking by the supporting company to provide a performance 
security as per format and instructions enclosed at PROFORMA-XVIII, 
equivalent to 50% of the value of the performance security which is to be 
submitted by the bidding company, in case the supported bidding company is 
the successful bidder.  
 

--- PAGE 31 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 31 of 273 
 
(ii) Undertaking from the supporting company to the effect that in addition 
to invoking the performance security submitted by the contractor, the 
performance security provided by supporting company shall be invoked by OIL 
due to non-performance of the contractor. 
 
Note: In case supporting company fails to submit performance bank 
guarantee as per (i) above action will be initiated as per PROFORMA– V of this 
Tender Document. 
2.4 ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA IN CASE BID IS SUBMITTED ON THE BASIS OF 
EXPERIENCE OF SISTER SUBSIDIARY/ CO-SUBSIDIARY COMPANY: 
 
Offers of those bidders who themselves do not meet the experience criteria as 
stipulated in Clause Nos. 2.2 can also be considered based on the experience 
criteria of their sister subsidiary/ co-subsidiary company within the ultimate 
parent/ holding company subject to meeting of the following conditions: 
 
i) Provided that the sister subsidiary/ co-subsidiary company and the bidding 
company are both 100% subsidiaries of an ultimate parent/holding company 
either directly or through intermediate 100% subsidiaries of the ultimate 
parent/ holding company or through any other 100% subsidiary company 
within the ultimate/holding parent company. Documentary evidence to this 
effect to be submitted by the ultimate parent/ holding company along with the 
technical bid. 
 
ii) Provided that the sister subsidiary/ co-subsidiary company on its own 
meets and not through any other arrangement like Technical Collaboration 
agreement meets the experience criteria stipulated in the BEC/BRC. 
 
iii) In case of contracts involving multifarious activities such as – (a) 
manufacturing/ supply (b) installation and commissioning (c) servicing and 
maintenance of any equipment, then in that case, the bidding company can 
draw on the experience of their multiple subsidiary sister company (ies) / co-
subsidiary company (ies) specializing in each sphere of activity, i.e. (a) 
manufacturing/supply (b) installation and commissioning (c) servicing and 
maintenance. However, all the sister subsidiary company(ies)/ co-subsidiary 
company(ies) and the bidding company should be 100% subsidiary 
company(ies) of an ultimate parent/ holding company either directly or 
through intermediate 100% subsidiaries of the ultimate parent/ holding 
company or through any other 100% subsidiary company within the ultimate/ 
holding parent company. 
 
iv) Undertaking by the supporting company to provide a performance security 
as per format and instructions enclosed at PROFORMA-XVIII, equivalent to 
50% of the value of the performance security which is to be submitted by the 
bidding company, in case the supported bidding company is the successful 
bidder.  
 

--- PAGE 32 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 32 of 273 
 
v) Undertaking from the supporting company to the effect that in addition to 
invoking the performance security submitted by the contractor, the 
performance security provided by supporting company shall be invoked by OIL 
due to non-performance of the contractor. 
 
Note: In case supporting company fails to submit performance bank guarantee 
as per (i) above action will be initiated as per PROFORMA – V of this Tender 
Document. 
 Note to Clause 2.2, 2.3 & 2.4 above  
i) Bidders quoting on the technical strength as per clause nos. 2.2, 2.3 & 2.4 
should provide the respective services including key personnel from parent/ 
sister subsidiary / co-subsidiary / JV partner for a minimum duration of 
50% of the Contract period during execution of the contract. A declaration 
as per Annexure-VII in this respect to be submitted as part of technical bid. 
 
ii) In cases where subsidiary/parent/ sister subsidiary / co-subsidiary 
companies do not have Permanent Establishment in India, the bidding 
company can furnish Performance Security equivalent to 150% of the 
value of the Performance Security which is to be submitted by the 
bidding company.  In such case bidding company shall furnish an 
undertaking in their Company’s letter head that their subsidiary/parent/ 
sister company is not having any Permanent Establishment in India in terms 
of Income Tax Act of India.  
 
2.5 SIMILAR work executed by a bidder for its own organization/subsidiary 
cannot be considered as experience for the purpose of meeting BEC.  
 
2.6      Bids submitted for part of the work will be rejected. Bid will be rejected if not   
     accompanied with adequate documentary proof in support of Work experience   
     as mentioned in clause 2.2.  
 
2.7 Bids from following types of bidder will not be accepted: 
• Who are in the Holiday list of OIL or its Administrative Ministry, MoPNG. 
• Who are under liquidation, court receivership or similar proceedings. 
• Consultant or their subsidiary Company or companies under the 
management of consultant for execution of the same project for which they 
are working as consultant. 
• Who are undergoing insolvency resolution process or liquidation or 
bankruptcy proceeding under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 
(Code). 
• Whose insolvency resolution process or liquidation or bankruptcy 
proceeding is initiated under the Code at any stage of evaluation of the bid. 
In this regard bidder must submit Self-Declaration in format duly certified 
by CEO/Country Head / Chief Operating Officer/Authorized 

--- PAGE 33 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 33 of 273 
 
Signatory/Partner holding the Power of Attorney along with the bid as per 
PROFORMA XXIII. 
3.1  Price bid shall be opened in respect of only the techno-commercially 
acceptable bidders whose bids have been found to be substantially 
responsive. A substantially responsive bid is one that meets the terms and 
conditions of the Tender and/or the acceptance of which bid will not result 
in indeterminate liability on OIL.  
3.2  Bidders are required to quote for all the items as per Price Bid Format; 
otherwise the offer of the bidder will be straightway rejected. 
3.3   If there is any discrepancy between the unit price and the total price, the 
unit price will prevail and the total price shall be corrected. Similarly, if there 
is any discrepancy between words and figure, the amounts in words shall 
prevail and will be considered for evaluation. 
3.4  The quantities shown against each item in the “Price Bid Format” shall be 
considered for the purpose of Bid Evaluation. It is, however, to be clearly 
understood that the assumptions made in respect of the quantities for various 
operations are only for the purpose of evaluation of the bid and the Contractor 
will be paid on the basis of the actual number of days/parameter, as the case 
may be. 
 
3.5  The bidders are advised not to offer any discount/rebate separately and to 
offer their prices in the Price Bid Format after considering discount/rebate, if 
any. 
  
3.6  Conditional and unsolicited discount will not be considered in evaluation. 
However, if such bidder happens to be the lowest recommended bidder, 
unsolicited discount without any condition will be considered for computing 
the contract price. 
3.7 PURCHASE PREFERENCE CLAUSE: Purchase Preference to MSE’s is not 
applicable against this Tender. 
4.0  EVALUATION METHODOLOGY: The bids conforming to the technical 
specifications, terms and conditions stipulated in the bidding document and 
considered to be responsive after subjecting to Bid Rejection Criteria will be 
considered for further evaluation as given below: 
4.1  Bids shall be evaluated both in terms of ‘Quality’ as well as ‘Quoted Price’ i.e. 
Quality & Cost Based Selection (QCBS) methodology. The weightage for the 
‘Quality’ is 60 and the weightage for the ‘Quoted’ price is 40. 
4.2  The marks allocated against various sub-sections under ‘Quality’ of Bid shall 
be as hereunder: 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 34 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 34 of 273 
 
 
 
 
COMPUTATION TABLE 
# Criteria  Unit Marks  Max 
Marks  
Supporting 
Documents  
A. Proposed Software Evaluation 
1.  Number of projects 
completed in  
Supply/Developmen
t, implementation & 
commissioning of 
HSE Software using 
the proposed software 
in India or abroad 
under a single 
contract over the last 
7 (seven) years  
reckoned from the 
Original Bid Closing 
Date 
a) ≥1 & ≤3 
Assignments: 
5 Marks 
b) ≥4 & ≤6 
Assignments: 
10 Marks 
c) ≥7 
Assignments: 
15 Marks 
25 
Marks 
As defined under 
Clause 2.2.1  
Additional 
Marks  
2 Mark for every 
project in Oil & 
Gas Industry 
(Max 10 Marks) 
2. The proposed EHS 
software should be 
recognized as part of 
Leaders segment by 
Verdantix under their 
Verdantix Green 
Quadrant :EHS 
Software report both 
in 2019 & 2021. 
 
25 Marks 25 
Marks  
Copy of Verdantix 
Green Quadrant: 
EHS Software 
reports self-
attested by 
CEO/MD/Authoriz
ed Signatory/POA 
of the bidding 
company to be 
submitted along 
with the bid. 
Note: In case it is 
attested by 
authorized 
signatory other 
than CEO/MD/, 
the contact details 
of the signatory 
must be mentioned 
for verification by 
OIL. 

--- PAGE 35 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 35 of 273 
 
3. Number of projects 
delivered in 
implementation of 
HSE Software  
involving SAP ERP 
integration in India or 
abroad by the bidder in 
the last 7 years 
a) ≥1 & ≤2 
Assignments: 
5 Marks 
b) ≥3 
Assignments:
10 Marks 
10 
Marks 
As defined under 
Clause 2.2.7  
4. Certification : CMMi 
Level 3 or higher  
10 Marks 10 
Marks 
Copy of valid 
certificate(s) issued 
to the bidder or 
OEM of the 
proposed software 
signed by 
CEO/MD/Authoriz
ed Signatory/ POA 
of the organization. 
(Certificates 
provided should be 
valid as on bid 
closing date) 
B.  Proposed Manpower Evaluation 
5.  Experience of Project 
Manager in leading 
similar assignments 
of implementation & 
commissioning of 
proposed EHS 
Software  over the 
last 5 years. 
a) For ≥1 & ≤2 
Assignments: 5 
Marks 
b) For ≥3 & ≤4 
Assignments: 
10 Marks 
c) For ≥5 
Assignments: 
15 Marks 
 
15 
Marks 
 
 
Experience certificate 
with details of the 
project and client 
details (including 
contact number and 
email ID for reference 
call) certified by 
CEO/MD/Authorized 
Signatory/POA is 
required. 
Refer Annexure C5 
 
6. Experience of 
Technology Architect 
in delivering similar 
assignments of 
implementation & 
commissioning of 
proposed EHS 
Software Modules 
over the last 5 years. 
a) For ≥1 & ≤2 
Assignments: 
5 Marks 
b) For ≥3 & ≤4 
Assignments: 
10 Marks 
c) For ≥5 
Assignments: 
15 Marks 
 
15 
Marks 
Total 100 Marks  

--- PAGE 36 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 36 of 273 
 
 
Notes to section 4.2: 
i. To demonstrate experience against criteria specified in above table, bidder 
must submit relevant documents as per clause 2.2.1 above 
ii. It shall be the bidder's responsibility to ensure submission of 
unambiguous/clear and sufficient documentary evidence in support of the 
evaluation criteria. 
iii. OIL reserves the right to verify any or all data/document/information 
provided by the bidder. False statement by the bidder will make it liable for 
appropriate action. 
iv. Price Bids shall be evaluated taking into account the Price quoted for all 
services including applicable GST (CGST & SGST/UTGST or IGST). 
v. Quoted price must include all liabilities and taxes including statutory 
liabilities but excluding GST, which shall be quoted separately in the Price 
Bid format. 
4. 3  To ascertain the Inter-se-ranking of the bids, the Quality & Cost Based 
Selection (QCBS) methodology as mentioned below shall be adopted: 
An Evaluated Bid Score (B) will be calculated for each bid using the following 
formula in order to have a comprehensive assessment of the Bid price and 
the Quality of each bid: 
𝑩=  𝐂 𝐥𝐨𝐰
𝑪 ×𝟏𝟎𝟎×𝐗+ 𝐓
𝑻 𝒉𝒊𝒈𝒉×𝟏𝟎𝟎×𝐘 
where, 
C = Evaluated Bid Price of the bidder 
C low = The lowest of the evaluated bid prices among the responsive bids 
T = The total marks obtained by the bidder against “Quality‟ criteria 
T high = The highest mark scored against “Quality‟ criteria among all 
responsive bids 
X = 0.4 (The weightage for “Quoted price‟ is 40 %) 
Y = 0.6 (The weightage for “Quality‟ is 60 %) 
Note: The Evaluated Bid Score (B) shall be considered up to two decimal 
places. 
5.0 AWARD OF CONTRACT: 
5.1  Contract shall be awarded to the bidder with the highest Evaluated Bid Score 
(B). 
5.2  In the event of two or more bids having the same highest Evaluated Bid Score 
(B), the bid scoring the highest marks against ‘Quality’ criteria will be 

--- PAGE 37 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 37 of 273 
 
recommended for award of contract. Even if there is a tie, ‘draw of lots’ will 
be resorted to arrive at the recommended bidder. 
5.3 To ascertain the inter-se-ranking, the comparison of the responsive bids will 
be made subject to loading for any deviation. 
6.0 VERIFICATION AND CERTIFICATION OF DOCUMENTS BY INDEPENDENT 
THIRD-PARTY INSPECTION AGENCIES: 
 
6.1 Oil India Limited (OIL) has engaged the following 09 (Nine) Independent 
Inspection Agencies for a period of 04 (four) years with effect from 06.05.2020 
to verify and certify various documents required against BEC/BRC of the 
tender: 
Sl. 
No. 
Name of Independent 
Inspection Agency Contact E-mail ID 
i. M/s. RINA India Pvt. Ltd. a. ssd@rina.org 
b. Andrea.Vattuone@rina.org 
ii. M/s. Dr. Amin Controllers 
Pvt. Ltd. 
a. rkjain@rcaindia.net  
b. info@rcaindia.net 
iii. M/s. Germanischer Llyod 
Industrial Services GmbH 
(DNV GL- Oil & Gas) 
a. mangesh.gaonkar@dnvgl.com 
iv. M/s. TÜV SÜD South Asia 
Pvt. Ltd. 
a. Jaimin.Bhatt@tuv-sud.in   
b. sanjaykumar.singh@tuv-sud.in 
c. Pankaj.Narkhede@tuv-sud.in 
d. Ajit.Yadav@tuv-sud.in 
v. M/s. IRCLASS Systems 
and Solutions Private 
Limited 
a. abhishek.singh@irclass.org 
b. pradeep.bansal@irclass.org 
c. Asim.Hajwani@irclass.org 
d. Amit.Ketkar@irclass.org  
e. industrial_services@irclass.org 
vi. M/s. Gulf Llyods Industrial 
Services (India) Pvt. Ltd. 
a. contact@gulflloyds.com 
b. bbhavsar@gulfllyods.com  
c. inspection@gulflloyds.com 
d. gulflloyds.india@gmail.com 
vii. M/s. TUV India Private 
Limited 
a. salim@tuv-nord.com 
b. delhi@tuv_nord.com 
viii. M/s. TÜV Rheinland (India) 
Pvt. Ltd. 
a. Shailesh.Deotale@ind.tuv.com 
b. ravi.kumar@ind.tuv.com 
c. rupeshkumar.singh@ind.tuv.com 
d. Neeraj.Chaturvedi@ind.tuv.com 
ix. M/s. Bureau Veritas (India) 
Private Limited 
a. udit.chopra@bureauveritas.com 
b. vishal.sapale@bureauveritas.com 
c. dinesh.sukhramani@bureauveritas.com 
d. p.sridhar@bureauveritas.com 
e. hariprasad.jhawar@bureauveritas.com 

--- PAGE 38 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 38 of 273 
 
f. amit.shaw@bureauveritas.com 
g. business.support@bureauveritas.com 
h. labhanshu.sharma@bureauveritas.com 
i. pramodkumar.yadav@bureauveritas.com 
j. sonal.lad@bureauveritas.com 
k. bvindia.corporate@in.bureauveritas.com  
 
6.2 The Bidders have to get verified and certified the various documents required 
against BEC/BRC of the tender by anyone of the above Independent 
Inspection Agencies and submit the duly certified Inspection Certificate by the 
Inspection Agencies along with the Technical Bid of the Tender. All Charges of 
the Third-party Independent Inspection Agencies towards verification of 
bidder’s documents and certification thereof shall be borne by the respective 
bidders and Payments on account of above inspection, verification and 
certification shall be made directly by the Bidder to the Inspection Agency(s). 
OIL will not be responsible for any payment dispute between Bidders and 
Third Party Inspection Agencies. 
6.3 As mentioned above, Bidder(s) have to submit the verified documents along 
with the Technical Bids. Bid submitted with un-verified supporting 
documents shall not be considered. However, in case a bidder submits its bid 
alongwith all relevant supporting documents as per BEC/BRC without getting 
all/some of them verified by the designated Independent Inspection agency, 
such bid can be provisionally considered provided it is accompanied by an 
Undertaking by the Bidder on their official letterhead to submit the duly 
verified copies/verification certificate within 07 (Seven) days of bid opening. 
Company will neither send any reminder nor seek any clarification in this 
regard from such bidders, and the bid will be rejected outright if the bidder 
fails to submit the verified copies/verification certificate within 07 (Seven) 
days of   bid opening at its own risk and responsibility. 
6.4 The methodology of inspection/ verification of documents followed by the 
agencies is broadly as under but not limited to: 
 
(a) It is obligatory on the part of the interested Bidders, who choose to 
participate against the tender, to understand the tender requirements in 
entirety and the requisite documents sought for in support of the Bid 
Rejection & Bid Evaluation Criteria (BEC/BRC) mentioned in the tender 
in particular. The Bidder must produce all the appropriate documents 
before any of the OIL’s empanelled third-party certifying agencies for 
verification/certification. Neither OIL nor the third-party certifying agency 
shall be held accountable in any manner regarding the choice of 
documents by the bidder for verification. Therefore, getting the appropriate 
documents inspected/verified by the agency in support of BEC/BRC 
clauses is the sole responsibility of the Bidder. 
 
(b) The prospective bidder shall contact any of the empanelled inspection 
agencies. The agency shall go through the Tender Document, especially 
the requirements of BEC/BRC and list the documents to be verified. They 
shall depute their qualified/competent inspector to the Bidder’s premises 
to check the original documents and certify the copies which the bidder 
shall submit along with their bids. OIL will reserve the right to ask the 
inspection agencies to verify the documents with source, if required at no 
extra cost to OIL. Verification of documents by OIL‟s empaneled third 

--- PAGE 39 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 39 of 273 
 
party agency shall not automatically make the bidder eligible for 
award of contract. 
 
(c) Verification of documents (but not limited to) are normally categorized as 
under: 
 
i. General Requirement: 
 Check Bidder’s PAN Card 
 Check Bidder’s GST Certificate 
 Check ITR of company  
 Check Bidder’s Certificate of Incorporation – Domestic Bidder. 
 
ii. Additional Documents : (If applicable against the tender) 
 Joint Ventures Agreements – To cross-check with JV Partners 
 Consortium Agreements – To cross-check with Consortium 
Partners 
 Holding/Parent/Subsidiary/Sister Subsidiary/Co-Subsidiary 
Company – To check the Share Holding pattern 
 
iii. Technical Criteria 
 To check Experience Proof- Completion Certificates, Reference 
contact verification, Original Work Order/Contract Copy and 
any other document(s), if called for vide BEC/BRC of the 
Tender. 
 
iv. Financial Criteria 
 Check and verify Audited Balance Sheet/CA certificate  
 To check the Line of Credit, if incorporated in the tender. 
Notes:  
(i) If any documents LOI/LOA/Contracts etc. are submitted 
towards BEC/BRC experience criteria issued by Oil India 
Limited, such documents need not be verified by TPI agency. 
 
(ii) Undertaking from TPI Agency as per format (PROFORMA - XIV) 
enclosed should be submitted along with the Bid. 
 
7.0 COMMERCIAL EVALUATION CRITERIA: 
7.1 Bids shall be submitted under single stage Two Bid System i.e. Technical Bid 
and Priced Bid separately in the OIL’s e-Tender portal. The Technical Bid is to 
be uploaded as per Scope of Work & Technical Specification of the tender in 
“Technical Attachments” Tab and Priced Bid as per Proforma-B uploaded in 
the “Notes & Attachments” Tab. Bids shall be rejected outright if the prices 
are indicated in the technical bids. Bids not conforming to this two-bid system 
shall be rejected outright. 
 
7.2    Bidder shall offer firm prices. Price quoted by the successful bidder must remain    

--- PAGE 40 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 40 of 273 
 
        firm during the execution of the contract and not subject to variation on any   
        account. 
 
7.3         Bids should be valid for a period of 120 (one-hundred twenty) days. Bids   
        with shorter validity shall be rejected as being non-responsive. 
 
7.4 Bid Security is not applicable against this tender. However, bidders shall 
submit along with their bid a signed “Bid Security Declaration” 
(PROFORMA-V) accepting that, if they withdraw or modify their bids during 
the period of validity; or if they are awarded the contract and they fail to 
sign the contract; or if they fail to submit performance security before the 
deadline defined in the NIT; they shall be suspended for the period of two 
years. This suspension of two years shall be automatic without conducting 
any enquiry. 
 
7.5 The Integrity Pact must be uploaded in OIL’s E-Procurement portal along 
with the Technical Bid digitally signed by the same signatory who digitally 
signed the Bid i.e. who is duly authorized to sign the Bid. If any bidder 
refuses to sign Integrity Pact or declines to submit the Integrity Pact, their 
bid shall be rejected. 
 
7.6 Bids received through the e-procurement portal shall only be accepted. Bids 
received in any other form shall not be accepted. 
 
7.7 The bid documents are non-transferable. Bid can only be submitted in the 
name of the bidder in whose name the User ID and Password have been 
issued. Unsolicited bids shall not be considered and shall be straightway 
rejected. 
 
7.8 Any physical documents wherever called for, submitted by bidders shall 
contain no interlineations, white fluid erasures or overwriting except as 
necessary to correct errors made by the Bidder, in which case such 
correction shall be initialled by the person or persons who has/have 
digitally signed the Bid. 
 
7.9 Any Bid containing false statement shall be rejected. 
 
7.10 Bidders must quote clearly and strictly in accordance with the price 
schedule outlined in “Price Bid Format” of Bid Document, otherwise the Bid 
shall be summarily rejected. 
 
7.11 Bidders shall quote directly and not through their Agent/ 
Representative/Retainer/Associate. 
 
7.12 Bidder must accept and comply with the following clauses as given in the 
Bid Document in toto failing which bid shall be rejected: 
i) Performance Security Clause 
ii) Taxes Clause 
iii) Insurance Clause 

--- PAGE 41 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 41 of 273 
 
iv) Force Majeure Clause 
v) Termination Clause 
vi) Arbitration Clause 
vii) Liability Clause 
viii) Withholding Clause 
ix) Liquidated damages Clause 
x) Firm price 
xi) Bid Security Declaration 
xii) Integrity Pact 
 
8.0 GENERAL: 
8.1  In case bidder takes exception to any clause of bid document not covered 
under BEC, then the Company has the discretion to load or reject the offer on 
account of such exception if the bidder does not withdraw/modify the 
deviation when/as advised by company. The loading so done by the Company 
will be final and binding on the bidders. 
 
8.2  To ascertain the substantial responsiveness of the Bid the Company reserves 
the right to ask the bidder for clarification in respect of clauses under BEC 
also and such clarifications fulfilling the BEC clauses in toto must be received 
on or before the deadline given by the Company, failing which the offer will be 
summarily rejected. 
 
8.3  If any of the clauses in the BEC contradict with other clauses of the Bid 
Document elsewhere, then the clauses in the BEC shall prevail. 
 
8.4 Bidder(s) must note that requisite information(s)/financial values etc. as 
required in the BEC/BRC & Tender are clearly understandable from the 
supporting documents submitted by the Bidder(s); otherwise Bids shall be 
rejected. 
 
8.5 OIL will not be responsible for delay, loss or non-receipt of applications for 
participating in the bid sent by mail and will not entertain any correspondence 
in this regard. 
 
8.6 The originals of such documents [furnished by bidder(s)] shall have to be 
produced by bidder(s) to OIL as and when asked for. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 42 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 42 of 273 
 
PART-I 
 
GENERAL CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT (GCC) 
 
1.0   APPLICABILITY, DEFINITION & INTERPRETATION: 
 
1.1 Applicability 
 
All clauses in the General Conditions of Contract [GCC] shall apply to all 
transactions except as otherwise stated in the Special Conditions of Contract 
[SCC] and/or BEC-BRC. Furthermore, in the event if there is any conflict 
between the Principal text of the Agreement and the Appendixes, the Principal 
text will prevail. 
 
1.2 Definition & Interpretation 
 
In the contract (as hereinafter defined) the following words and expressions 
shall have the meaning hereby assigned to them except where the context 
otherwise requires: 
 
1.2.1 COMPANY/OIL/Operator: 
 
Shall mean Oil India Limited [OIL] a public sector undertaking, incorporated 
under COMPANY’s Act 1956 having its registered office at Duliajan-786602, 
Assam, India and includes its successor and permitted assigns. 
 
1.2.2 CONTRACTOR: 
 
Shall mean the person or persons, firm or COMPANY or corporation 
incorporated in India or abroad, who has been awarded with the contract and 
includes contractor’s legal representatives, his successors and permitted 
assigns. 
 
1.2.3 Contract: 
 
Shall mean a written agreement between the COMPANY and the 
CONTRACTOR for execution of the services/works including all contract 
documents and subsequent amendments, if any. 
 
1.2.4 Site: 
 
Shall mean the place in which the operations/services are to be carried out or 
places approved by OIL for the purposes of the CONTRACT together with any 
other places designated in the CONTRACT as forming part of the site. 
 
1.2.5 COMPANY’s Site Representative/Engineer: 
 
Shall mean the person or the persons appointed by the COMPANY from time 
to time to act on its behalf at the site for overall co- ordination, supervision 
and project management at site. 
 

--- PAGE 43 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 43 of 273 
 
1.2.6 Sub-Contract: 
 
Shall mean order/contract placed by the CONTRACTOR for any portion of the 
CONTRACT or work sublet with necessary written consent of COMPANY on 
third party. Such sub-letting shall not relieve the CONTRACTOR from any 
obligation, duty or responsibility under the CONTRACT. 
 
1.2.7 Sub-Contractor: 
 
Shall mean any person or firm or COMPANY (other than CONTRACTOR) to 
whom any part of the work has been entrusted by CONTRACTOR, with 
written consent of OIL or the persons appointed by OIL, successors and 
permitted assigns of such persons, firm or COMPANY. 
 
1.2.8 Contractor's Representative: 
 
Shall mean such person/or persons duly appointed representative at the site 
and base as the CONTRACTOR may designate in writing to the COMPANY as 
having authority to act for the CONTRACTOR in matters affecting the work 
and to provide the requisite services. 
 
1.2.9 Contract Price/Value: 
 
Shall mean the sum accepted or the sum calculated in accordance with the 
rates accepted in tender and/or the contract rates as payable to the 
CONTRACTOR for the entire execution and completion of the services/works, 
including amendments/modification/change order issued by the COMPANY. 
 
1.2.10 Firm price: 
 
The prices will remain unchanged, except for statutory changes, during 
currency of the CONTRACT unless specifically agreed to in writing by 
COMPANY. 
 
1.2.11 Service/Works/Operations: 
 
Shall mean and include all items and things to be supplied/done and all work 
/Service to be performed by the CONTRACTOR as specified in the Scope of 
Work under this CONTRACT and shall also include all extra, additional, 
altered or substituted works/services as required for the purpose of 
successful execution of the Contract. 
 
1.2.12 Equipment/Materials/Goods: 
 
Shall mean and include any equipment, machinery, instruments, stores, 
goods which CONTRACTOR is required to provide to the COMPANY for/under 
the CONTRACT and amendments thereto. 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 44 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 44 of 273 
 
1.2.13 Drawings: 
 
Shall mean and include all Engineering sketches, general arrangements/ 
layout drawings, sectional plans, all elevations, photographs, etc. related to 
the CONTRACT together with modification and revision thereto. 
 
1.2.14 Specifications: 
 
Means and includes all technical specifications, provision attached and 
referred to in the tender/contract document regarding method and manner of 
performing the services and qualities of the service/materials to be provided 
under the contract and also as modified by the COMPANY/its site 
representative during the execution of contract in the best interest of service. 
 
1.2.15 Engineer In-charge (EIC): 
 
Shall mean the person designated from time to time by the COMPANY and 
shall include those who are expressly authorized by the COMPANY to act for 
and on its behalf for operation of the contract. 
 
1.2.16 Inspectors: 
 
Shall mean any person or outside Agency nominated by COMPANY to inspect 
equipment, materials and services, if any, in the CONTRACT (stage wise as 
well as final) as per the terms of the CONTRACT. 
 
1.2.17 Tests: 
 
Shall mean such process or processes to be carried out by the CONTRACTOR 
as are prescribed in the CONTRACT, considered necessary by the COMPANY 
or their representative to ascertain quality, workmanship, performance and 
efficiency of equipment or services thereof. 
 
1.2.18 Approval: 
 
Shall mean and include the written consent duly signed by COMPANY or their 
authorized official in respect of all documents, drawings or other particulars 
in relation to the CONTRACT 
 
1.2.19 Day: 
 
Shall mean a calendar day of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours beginning at 
00:00 hours with reference to local time at the site. 
 
1.2.20 Month: 
 
Shall mean a calendar month as per Gregorian calendar. 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 45 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 45 of 273 
 
1.2.21 Year: 
 
Shall mean calendar year as per Gregorian calendar. 
 
1.2.22 Working day: 
 
Means any day which is not declared to be holiday by the COMPANY. 
 
1.2.23 Bid/offer: 
 
Shall mean the proposal/Offer along with supporting documents submitted 
by the bidder in response to the tender or enquiry in accordance with the 
terms of Tender or Enquiry, for consideration by COMPANY, prior to award of 
contract. 
 
1.2.24 Guarantee: 
 
Shall mean the period and other conditions governing the 
warranty/guarantee of the services as provided in the CONTRACT. 
 
1.2.25 Mobilization: 
 
Shall mean rendering the equipment fully manned and equipped as per 
CONTRACT and ready to begin work at site designated by the COMPANY and 
accepted by the COMPANY after inspection. 
 
1.2.26 De-mobilization: 
 
Shall mean the removal of all items forming part of the Mobilization from the 
site of the COMPANY and inspection and acceptance thereafter by the 
COMPANY including compliance of requirement in relation to re-export of 
imported equipment/materials under concessional duty scheme in 
accordance with relevant notification from Customs Authorities. 
 
1.2.27 Willful Misconduct: 
 
Shall mean intentional disregard of good and prudent standards of 
performance or proper conduct under the Contract with knowledge that it is 
likely to result in any injury to any person or persons or loss or damage of 
property of the Company or Third Party. 
 
1.2.28 Gross Negligence: 
 
Shall mean any act or failure to act (whether sole, joint or concurrent) by a 
person or entity which was intended to cause, or which was in reckless 
disregard of or unjustifiable indifference to, avoidable and harmful 
consequences such person or entity knew, or should have known, would 
result from such act or failure to act. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Gross 
negligence shall not include any action taken in good faith for the safeguard 
of life or property. 

--- PAGE 46 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 46 of 273 
 
1.2.29 Criminal Negligence: 
 
Shall mean that the crime happened negligently, there was duty of care upon 
the Person but inadvertently due to his negligence, the duty was breached, 
which causes harm to the people in the form of death or serious injury. 
 
1.2.30 GST Legislations: 
 
‘GST legislations’ means ‘any or all of the following legislations as may be 
applicable to the CONTRACTOR and OIL: 
 
(A) The Central Goods & Services Tax Act, 2017; 
(B) The Integrated Goods & Services Act, 2017; 
(C) The Union Territory Goods & Services Tax Act, 2017; 
(D) The respective State Goods & Service Tax Acts’ 
(E) The Goods and Services (Compensation to States) Act, 2017 
(F) The Customs Act and the Customs Tariff Act. 
(G) Any other applicable Act related to GST 
 
2.0 CONTRACT DOCUMENT: 
 
2.1 Governing language: The governing language for the CONTRACT shall be 
English. All CONTRACT documents and all correspondence and 
communication to be given and all other documentation to be prepared and 
supplied under the CONTRACT shall be written in English and the 
CONTRACT shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with English 
language. 
 
2.2 Entire Agreement: The CONTRACT constitutes the entire agreement between 
OIL and the CONTRACTOR with respect to the subject matter of the 
CONTRACT and supersedes all communication, negotiations and agreement 
(whether written or oral) of the parties with respect thereto made prior to the 
date of this agreement, unless such communication(s) expressly forms part of 
the contract or included by reference. 
 
2.3 Amendment in CONTRACT: No Amendment of the Contract shall be valid 
unless it is in writing, is dated, expressly refers to the Contract, and is signed 
by a duly authorized representative of each party thereto. OIL shall not be 
bound by any printed conditions, provisions in the CONTRACTOR’s BID, 
forms of acknowledgement of CONTRACT, invoice and other documents which 
purport to impose any condition at variance with or supplement to 
CONTRACT. 
 
3.0 WAIVERS AND AMENDMENTS: 
 
3.1 Waivers: It is fully understood and agreed that none of the terms and 
conditions of this contract shall be deemed waived by either party unless 
such waiver is executed in writing only by the duly authorized representatives 
of both the parties. The failure of either party to execute any right shall not 
act as a waiver of such right by such party. 
 

--- PAGE 47 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 47 of 273 
 
3.2 Change Program: It is agreed that CONTRACTOR shall carry out work in 
accordance with the completion program (e.g. Drilling programme) to be 
furnished by the COMPANY, which may be changed from time to time by 
reasonable modifications in the program as COMPANY sees fit. COMPANY’s 
instruction in this regard shall be final and binding. 
 
4.0 CONTRACT TIMELINE: 
 
4.1 Effective Date of Contract: The contract shall become effective as of the date 
COMPANY notifies the CONTRACTOR in writing that it has been awarded the 
contract. This date of issuance of Letter of Award (LOA) by the COMPANY will 
be the Effective Date of Contract. All terms and conditions of the contract 
shall come into force with the date of issuance of LOA. 
 
4.2 Date of Commencement of Operation: 
 
The date on which the mobilization is completed in all respects and 
CONTRACTOR is ready to commence operation as per the contract provision 
[Certified by the COMPANY’s representative] will be treated as the date of 
Commencement of Operation. 
 
4.3 Duration of the contract: 
 
The contract shall be valid for a period as defined in the LOA and Special 
Conditions of Contract [SCC]. 
 
5.0 SCOPE OF WORK/CONTRACT: 
 
Scope of the CONTRACT shall be as defined in the CONTRACT, specifications, 
drawings and Appendices. 
 
6.0 GENERAL OBLIGATION OF CONTRACTOR: 
 
CONTRACTOR shall, in accordance with and subject to the terms and 
conditions of this Contract: 
 
6.1 Perform the work described in the Terms of Reference/Scope of Work. The 
CONTRACTOR shall execute the work with professional competence and in an 
efficient and workman like manner. 
 
6.2 Except as otherwise provided in the Terms of Reference and the special 
Conditions of the contract, employ all labours/personnel as required to 
perform the work. 
 
6.3 Perform all other obligations, work and services which are required by the 
terms of this contract or which reasonably can be implied from such terms as 
being necessary for the successful and timely completion of the work. 
 
6.4 Comply with all applicable statutory obligations specified in the contract. 
 
6.5 CONTRACTOR shall be deemed to have satisfied himself before submitting 

--- PAGE 48 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 48 of 273 
 
their bid as to the correctness and sufficiency of its bid for the services 
required and of the rates and prices quoted, which rates and prices shall, 
except insofar as otherwise provided, cover all its obligations under the 
contract. 
 
6.6 CONTRACTOR shall be deemed, prior to submitting their bids, to have 
satisfied themselves about the weather conditions, working culture in the 
area, socio-political environment, safety & security aspects, law & order 
situation and law of the land, and obtain for themselves all necessary 
information as to the risks, contingencies and all other circumstances, which 
may influence or affect the various obligations under the Contract. 
 
6.7 CONTRACTOR shall give or provide all necessary supervision during the 
performance of the services and as long thereafter within the warranty period 
as COMPANY may consider necessary for the proper fulfilling of 
CONTRACTOR's obligations under the contract. 
 
7.0 GENERAL OBLIGATION OF COMPANY: 
 
COMPANY shall, in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions 
of this contract: 
 
7.1 Pay CONTRACTOR in accordance with terms and conditions of the contract. 
 
7.2 Allow CONTRACTOR access, subject to normal security and safety 
procedures, to all areas as required for orderly performance of the work as 
specified in the Scope of Works of the contract or work connected therewith. 
 
7.3 Perform all other obligations required of COMPANY by the terms of this 
contract. 
 
8.0 DUTIES AND POWER /AUTHORITY: 
 
8.1 OIL’s site representative/engineer: 
 
The duties and authorities of OIL’s site representative/engineer are to act on 
behalf of OIL for: 
 
i. Overall supervision, co-ordination and Project Management at site 
ii. Proper and optimum utilization of equipment and services. 
iii. Monitoring of performance and progress 
iv. Commenting/countersigning on reports made by the CONTRACTOR’s 
representative at site in respect of works, receipts, and consumption etc. after 
satisfying himself with the facts of the respective cases. 
v. He shall have the authority, but not obligation at all times and any time to 
inspect/test/examine/verify any equipment machinery, instruments, tools, 
materials, personnel, procedures and reports etc. directly or indirectly 
pertaining to the execution of the work. However this shall not construe to 
imply an acceptance by the inspector. 
Hence, the overall responsibility of quality of work shall rest solely with the 

--- PAGE 49 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 49 of 273 
 
CONTRACTOR. 
vi. Each and every document emerging from site in support of any claim by the 
CONTRACTOR has to have the countersignature/comments of the OIL’s 
representative/engineer without which no claim shall be entertained by the 
OIL. 
 
8.2   CONTRACTOR’s representative: 
 
(a) The CONTRACTOR’s representative shall have all the powers requisite for the 
performance of the Service/Works, subject to holding due authorisation from 
the CONTRACTOR. 
(b) Representative(s) shall liaise with OIL’s representative/engineer for the proper 
co-ordination and timely completion of the works and on any matter 
pertaining to the works. 
(c) Representative(s) shall extend full co-operation to OIL’s 
representative/inspector/engineer in the manner required by them for 
supervision/inspection/observation of equipment, material, procedures, 
performance, reports and records pertaining to works. 
(d) To have complete charge of CONTRACTOR’s personnel engaged in the 
performance of the work and to ensure compliance of rules and regulations 
and safety practice. 
 
9.0 Personnel to be deployed by contractor: 
 
CONTRACTOR warrants that it shall provide competent, qualified and 
sufficiently experienced personnel to perform the work correctly and 
efficiently. 
 
9.1 The CONTRACTOR should ensure that their personnel observe all statutory 
safety requirements including those prescribed by the COMPANY. Upon 
COMPANY’s written request, CONTRACTOR, entirely at its own expense, shall 
remove immediately any personnel of the CONTRACTOR determined by the 
COMPANY to be unsuitable and shall promptly replace such personnel with 
personnel acceptable to the COMPANY. Replacement personnel should be 
mobilized within 15 days from the date of issuance of notice without affecting 
the operation of the COMPANY. 
 
9.2 The CONTRACTOR shall be solely responsible throughout the period of the 
contract for providing all requirements of their personnel including but not 
limited to, their transportation to & fro from Duliajan/field site, enroute/ 
local boarding, lodging, personal protective gear & medical attention etc. 
COMPANY shall have no responsibility or liability in this regard. 
 
9.3 However, COMPANY shall provide available medical assistance/facilities to 
CONTRACTOR’s Personnel in case of emergency at its own establishment on 
chargeable basis. 
 
9.4 CONTRACTOR's key personnel shall be fluent in English language (both 
writing and speaking). 
 

--- PAGE 50 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 50 of 273 
 
10.0 PERFORMANCE SECURITY: 
 
10.1 On receipt of notification of award from the COMPANY, the CONTRACTOR 
shall furnish the Performance Security to COMPANY within 15 (fifteen) days 
from the date of issue of LOA for an amount specified in the Forwarding 
Letter and Letter of Award (LOA) as per Proforma-Form and must be in the 
form of a Bank Draft/Cashier’s cheque/Banker’s 
cheque*/NEFT/RTGS/Electronic fund transfer to designated account of OIL# 
or Fixed Deposit Receipt (account OIL INDIA LIMITED) or irrevocable Bank 
Guarantee or irrevocable Letter of Credit (LC) from: 
a. Any schedule Indian Bank or Any Branch of an International bank 
situated in India and registered with Reserve Bank of India as scheduled 
foreign bank in case of domestic CONTRACTOR/service provider. 
     OR 
b. Any scheduled bank in India or from International bank who has its 
branch in India registered with Reserve Bank of India, in case of foreign 
CONTRACTOR/service provider. 
     OR 
c. Any foreign Bank which is not a Scheduled Bank in India, provided the 
Bank Guarantee issued by such Bank is counter-guaranteed by any Branch 
situated in India of any Scheduled Bank incorporated in India. 
 
Note: Bank Guarantee issued by a Scheduled Bank of India at the request of 
some other Non-Schedule Bank of India shall not be acceptable. 
 
10.2 Bank Guarantee issued by a Bank, amongst others, must contain the 
following particulars of such bank: 
Full address  
Branch Code 
Code Nos. of the authorized signatory with full name and designation.  
Phone Nos. 
Fax Nos. 
E-mail address. 
 
10.3 The domestic CONTRACTOR/service provider(s) will have to submit the Bank 
Guarantee from any of the scheduled banks and on non- judicial stamp paper 
of requisite value as per the Indian Stamp Act, purchased in the name of the 
issuing banker. 
 
10.4 The foreign CONTRACTOR/service provider(s) will submit the Bank 
Guarantee from Banks of Indian origin situated in their country. In case no 
such bank of Indian origin is situated in their country, the Bank Guarantee 
may be submitted from the bankers as specified above. 
 
10.5 The Performance Security shall be denominated in the currency of the 
contract. 
 
10.6 The Performance Security specified above must be valid for the entire 
duration of the Contract and claim period should be valid for a minimum of 
03 (three) months beyond the contract period. The Performance Security will 

--- PAGE 51 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 51 of 273 
 
be discharged by COMPANY not later than 30 days following its expiry of 
claim period. In the event of any extension of the Contract period, Bank 
Guarantee should be extended by CONTRACTOR by the period equivalent to 
the extended period. 
 
10.7 The Performance Security shall be encashed by COMPANY on account of 
CONTRACTOR’s failure to fulfil its obligations under the Contract and/or 
non-performance/un-satisfactory performance of the Contractor. Company 
shall not be required to proof any loss or damage on account of Contractor’s 
non-performance/un-satisfactory performance. 
 
10.8 The Performance Security will not accrue any interest during its period of 
validity or extended validity. 
 
10.9 Failure of the successful Bidder to comply with the requirements of clause 
10.0 shall constitute sufficient grounds for annulment of the award. In such 
an eventuality, action will be initiated as per the Banning Policy of OIL in 
vogue. 
# Subject to credit in OIL’s account within prescribed time 
* The validity of Bank Draft/Cashier’s/Banker’s cheque (as applicable) should 
not be less than 3 months. 
In the event CONTRACTOR fails to honour any of the commitments entered 
into under this agreement, and /or in the event of termination of the contract 
under provisions of Integrity Pact and /or in respect of any amount due from 
the CONTRACTOR to OIL, OIL shall have unconditional option under the 
guarantee to invoke the above bank guarantee and claim the amount from 
the bank. The bank shall be obliged to pay the amount to OIL on demand. 
 
11.0 SIGNING OF CONTRACT: 
 
11.1 The successful bidder is required to sign a formal detailed contract with OIL 
within a maximum period of 60 days of date of LOA. Until the contract is 
signed, the LOA as well as GCC & SCC as prescribed in the Tender, shall 
remain binding amongst the two parties. In the event of failure on the part of 
the successful Bidder to sign the contract, OIL reserves the right to terminate 
the LOA issued to the successful Bidder and invoke the Performance Security 
if submitted by the successful Bidder. Such CONTRACTOR shall be put on 
holiday as per the Banning Policy of OIL [available at www.oil-india.in]. 
 
12.0 CLAIMS, TAXES & DUTIES: 
 
12.1 Claims: CONTRACTOR agrees to pay all claims, taxes and fees for equipment, 
labour, materials, services and supplies to be furnished by it hereunder and 
agrees to allow no lien or charge resulting from such claims to be fixed upon 
any property of COMPANY. COMPANY may, at its option, pay and discharge 
any liens or overdue charges for CONTRACTOR’s equipment, labour, 
materials, services and supplies under this CONTRACT and may thereupon 
deduct the amount or amounts so paid from any sum due, or thereafter 
become due, to CONTRACTOR hereunder. 
 
12.2 Notice of claims: CONTRACTOR or COMPANY, as the case may be, shall 

--- PAGE 52 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 52 of 273 
 
promptly give the other, notice in writing of any claim made or proceeding 
commenced for which that party is entitled to indemnification under the 
CONTRACT. Each party shall confer with the other concerning the defense of 
any such claims or proceeding, shall permit the other to be represented by 
counsel in defense thereof, and shall not affect settlement of or compromise 
any such claim or proceeding without the other’s written consent. 
 
12.3 Taxes: 
 
12.3.1 CONTRACTOR, unless specified otherwise in the CONTRACT, shall bear all 
tax liabilities, duties, Govt. levies etc. including GST and customs duty, 
Corporate and personnel taxes levied or imposed on the CONTRACTOR on 
account of payments received by it from the COMPNAY for the work done 
under this CONTRACT. It shall be the responsibility of CONTRACTOR to 
submit to the concerned Indian authorities, the returns and all other 
concerned documents required for this purpose and to comply in all respects 
with the requirements of the laws in this regard, in time. 
 
12.3.2 Tax levied on CONTRACTOR as per the provisions of Indian Income Tax Act 
and any other enactment/rules on income derived/payments received under 
the contract will be on CONTRACTOR’s account. 
 
12.3.3 CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for payment of personal taxes, if any, for 
all the personnel deployed in India by CONTRACTOR. 
 
12.3.4 The CONTRACTOR shall furnish to the COMPANY, if and when called upon to 
do so, relevant statement of accounts or any other information pertaining to 
work done under the contract for submitting the same to the Tax authorities, 
on specific request from them in accordance with provisions under the law. 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for preparing and filing the return of 
income etc. within the prescribed time limit to the appropriate authority. 
 
12.3.5 Prior to start of operations under the contract, the CONTRACTOR shall 
furnish the COMPANY with the necessary documents, as asked for by the 
COMPANY and/or any other information pertaining to the contract, which 
may be required to be submitted to the Income Tax authorities at the time of 
obtaining "No Objection Certificate" for releasing payments to the 
CONTRACTOR. 
 
12.3.6 Corporate income tax will be deducted at source from the invoice at the 
specified rate of income tax as per the provisions of Indian Income Tax Act as 
may be in force from time to time and COMPANY will issue TDS Certificate to 
the CONTRACTOR as per the provisions of Income Tax Act. 
 
12.3.7 Corporate and personnel taxes on CONTRACTOR shall be the liability of the 
CONTRACTOR and the COMPANY shall not assume any responsibility on this 
account. 
 
12.3.8 All local taxes, levies and duties, sales tax, octroi, etc. on purchases and sales 
made by CONTRACTOR shall be borne by the CONTRACTOR. 
 

--- PAGE 53 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 53 of 273 
 
12.3.9 CONTRACTOR shall provide all the necessary compliances/ 
invoice/documents for enabling OIL to avail Input tax credit benefits in 
respect of the payments of GST which are payable against the CONTRACT. 
The CONTRACTOR should provide tax invoice issued under GST legislations 
for the goods and Services (indicating GST). Payment towards the components 
of GST shall be released by OIL only against appropriate documents i.e.: Tax 
Invoice/Bill of entry for availing input tax credit (as applicable). 
 
12.3.10  The tax invoices as per above provisions should contain all the particulars as 
required under the invoicing rules under the GST legislations, including, but 
not limited to the following: 
 
i. Name, Address and the GST Registration Number (under the relevant Tax 
Rules) of the Service Provider (CONTRACTOR) 
ii. Name and Address and GST Registration Number of the Service Receiver 
(Address of OIL) 
iii. Description, Classification and Value of taxable service/goods and the 
amount of applicable tax (CGST, SGST, IGST, UTGST and cess) 
 
12.3.11  In case of imported goods, CONTRACTOR/supplier is required to provide 
original Bill of Entry or copy of Bill of Entry duly attested by Custom 
authority. 
 
12.3.12  The CONTRACTOR should mention the Place of supply in the invoice raised 
under GST Law. 
 
12.3.13  OIL would not accept any invoice without its GSTIN mentioned on the invoice 
Note: CONTRACTOR who is under composition levy of the GST legislation 
would raise Bill of supply instead of Tax invoice, which will have GSTIN of 
supplier as well as OIL. 
 
12.4 Goods and Services Tax: 
 
12.4.1 “GST” shall mean Goods and Services Tax charged on the supply of 
material(s) and services. The term “GST” shall be construed to include the 
Integrated Goods and Services Tax (hereinafter referred to as “IGST”) or 
Central Goods and Services Tax (hereinafter referred to as “CGST”) or State 
Goods and Services Tax (hereinafter referred to as “SGST”) or Union Territory 
Goods and Services Tax (hereinafter referred to as “UTGST”) depending upon 
the import/interstate or intrastate supplies, as the case may be. It shall also 
mean GST compensation Cess, if applicable. 
 
12.4.2 Where the OIL is entitled to avail the input tax credit of GST:  
OIL will reimburse the GST to the Supplier of Goods/Services (Service 
Provider) at actual against submission of Invoices as per format specified in 
rules/regulation of GST to enable OIL to claim input tax credit of GST paid. In 
case of any variation in the executed quantities, the amount on which the 
GST is applicable shall be modified in same proportion. Returns and details 
required to be filled under GST laws &rules should be timely filed by supplier 
with requisite details. 
 

--- PAGE 54 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 54 of 273 
 
12.4.3 Where the OIL is not entitled to avail/take the full input tax credit of GST:  
OIL will reimburse GST to the Supplier of Goods/Services (Service Provider) at 
actual against submission of Invoices as per format specified in rules/ 
regulation of GST subject to the ceiling amount of GST as quoted by the 
bidder. In case of any variation in the executed quantities (If directed and/or 
certified by the In-Charge) the ceiling amount on which GST is applicable will 
be modified on pro-rata basis. 
 
12.4.4 The CONTRACTOR will be under obligation for charging correct rate of tax as 
prescribed under the respective tax laws. Further the CONTRACTOR shall 
avail and pass on benefits of all exemptions/concessions available under tax 
laws. Any error of interpretation of applicability of taxes/ duties by the 
CONTRACTOR shall be to CONTRACTOR’s account. 
 
12.4.5 In case of statutory variation in GST, other than due to change in turnover, 
payable on the contract value during contract period, the Supplier of Goods/ 
Services (Service Provider) shall submit a copy of the 'Government 
Notification' to evidence the rate as applicable on the Bid due date and on the 
date of revision. 
 
12.4.6 Beyond the contract period, in case OIL is not entitled for input tax credit of 
GST, then any increase in the rate of GST beyond the contractual delivery 
period shall be to Service provider’s account whereas any decrease in the rate 
GST shall be passed on to the OIL. 
 
12.4.7 Beyond the contract period, in case OIL is entitled for input tax credit of GST, 
then statutory variation in applicable GST on supply and on incidental 
services, shall be to OIL’s account. 
 
12.4.8 Claim for payment of GST/Statutory variation, should be raised within two 
[02] months from the date of issue of 'Government Notification' for payment of 
differential (in %) GST, otherwise claim in respect of above shall not be 
entertained for payment of arrears. 
 
12.4.9 The base date for the purpose of applying statutory variation shall be the Bid 
Opening Date. 
 
12.4.10  The CONTRACTOR will be liable to ensure to have registered with the 
respective tax authorities, wherever applicable and to submit self- attested 
copy of such registration certificate(s) and the CONTRACTOR will be 
responsible for procurement of material in its own registration (GSTIN) and 
also to issue its own Road Permit/E-way Bill, if applicable etc. 
 
12.5 Anti-profiteering clause 
 
12.5.1 As per Clause 171 of GST Act it is mandatory to pass on the benefit due to 
reduction in rate of tax or from input tax credit to the consumer by way of 
commensurate reduction in prices. 
 
12.5.2 In case rating of Contractor is negative/black listed after award of work for 
supply of goods/services, then OIL shall not be obligated or liable to pay or 

--- PAGE 55 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 55 of 273 
 
reimburse GST to such vendor/Contractor and shall also be entitled to 
deduct/recover such GST along with all penalties/interest, if any, incurred 
by OIL. 
 
13.0 CUSTOMS DUTY, IF APPLICABLE: 
 
13.1.1 CONTRACTOR shall be responsible to import the equipment/tools/spares/ 
consumables etc. required for execution of the contract. The CONTRACTOR 
shall undertake to complete all the formalities as required under the Customs 
Act/Foreign Trade Policy (FTP) and indemnify OIL from all the liabilities of 
Customs in this regard. 
 
13.1.2 CONTRACTOR will be solely responsible for payment of all applicable 
Customs Duty and to comply all Rules and Regulations. Total Contract 
Price/Value is inclusive of all Customs Duty, if not mentioned otherwise 
elsewhere in the Contract. 
 
13.1.3 Above clause is to be read with Customs Duty Clause in SCC, if any. 
 
14.0 INSURANCE: 
 
14.1 CONTRACTOR shall at his own expense arrange secure and maintain 
insurance with reputed insurance companies to the satisfaction of the 
Company as follows: 
Contractor at his cost shall arrange, secure and maintain insurance as may 
be necessary and to its full value for all such amounts to protect the works in 
progress from time to time and the interest of Company against all risks as 
detailed herein. The form and the limit of such insurance, as defined here in 
together with the under works thereof in each case should be as acceptable to 
the Company. However, irrespective of work acceptance the responsibility to 
maintain adequate insurance coverage at all times during the period of 
Contract shall be that of Contractor alone. Contractor's failure in this regard 
shall not relieve him of any of his responsibilities & obligations under 
Contract. All costs on account of insurance liabilities covered under Contract 
will be to Contractor's account and will be included in Value of Contract. 
However, the Company may from time to time, during the currency of the 
Contract, ask the Contractor in writing to limit the insurance coverage risk 
and in such a case, the parties to the Contract will agree for a mutual 
settlement, for reduction in value of Contract to the extent of reduced 
premium amounts. Contractor shall cover insurance with Indian Insurance 
Companies. 
 
14.2 Any deductible set forth in any of the above insurance shall be borne by 
Contractor. 
 
14.3 CONTRACTOR shall require all of his sub-Contractor to provide such of the 
foregoing insurance coverage as Contractor is obliged to provide under this 
Contract and inform the Company about the coverage prior to the 
commencement of agreements with its sub-Contractors. 
 
14.4 All insurance taken out by Contractor or their sub-contractor shall be 

--- PAGE 56 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 56 of 273 
 
endorsed to provide that the underwriters waive their rights of recourse on 
the Company and to the extent of the liabilities assumed by Contractor under 
this Contract. 
 
14.5 Certificate of Insurance: 
 
Before commencing performance of the CONTRACT, CONTRACTOR shall 
furnish OIL with certificates of insurance indicating: 
a) Kinds and amounts of insurance as required herein 
b) Details of coverage 
c) Insurance corporation or companies carrying the aforesaid coverage 
d) Effective and expiry dates of policies 
e) That OIL shall be given thirty (30) days written advance notice of any 
 material change in the policy 
f) Waiver of subrogation endorsement has been attached to all policies 
and 
g) The territorial limits of all policies. 
 
14.6 Contractor shall also inform the Company at least 60 days in advance 
regarding the expiry cancellation and/or changes in any of such documents & 
ensure revalidation/renewal, etc., as may be necessary well in time. 
 
14.7 If any of the above policy expire or/are cancelled during the term of this 
CONTRACT and CONTRACTOR fails for any reason to renew such policies, 
OIL in no case shall be liable for any loss/damage occurred during the term 
when the policy is not effective. Furthermore, a penal interest @ 1% of the 
Total contract value shall be charged towards not fulfilling of the contractual 
obligations. Notwithstanding above, should there be a lapse in any insurance 
required to be taken by the Contractor for any reason whatsoever, 
loss/damage claims resulting therefrom shall be to the sole account of 
Contractor. 
 
14.8 Contractor on demand from Company shall furnish the Insurance Policy 
having detail terms and conditions, with respect to any Certificate of 
Insurance submitted to the Company. 
CONTRACTOR shall, at his own expense, arrange appropriate comprehensive 
insurance to cover all risks assumed by the CONTRACTOR under this 
CONTRACT in respect of CONTRACTOR’s equipment, tools and any other 
belongings of the CONTRACTOR and its personnel as well deputed under this 
CONTRACT during the entire period of their engagement in connection with 
this CONTRACT including extensions if any. The CONTRACTOR shall also 
carry adequate insurance cover against damage/loss to third party 
person/property. OIL will have no liability on this account. 
 
14.9 Principal Assured: 
 
The following are to be included as Principal Assured(s) in the Insurance 
Policies (except in case of Workmen’s Compensation/Employer’s Liability 
insurance): 
“Oil India Limited, and CONTRACTOR’s name (as appearing in the 
Contract/LOA)” 

--- PAGE 57 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 57 of 273 
 
14.10 Waiver of subrogation: 
 
All insurance policies of the CONTRACTOR with respect to the operations 
conducted hereunder as set forth in clauses hereof, shall be endorsed by the 
underwriter in accordance with the following policy wording: 
“The insurers hereby waive their rights of subrogation against Oil India 
Limited or any of their employees or their affiliates and assignees”. 
 
14.11 Deductible: 
 
The CONTRACTOR shall take policy with minimum deductible as per IRDA 
prescribed for the policy(ies). That portion of any loss not covered by 
insurance provided for in this article solely by reason of deductible provision 
in such insurance policies shall be to the account of the CONTRACTOR. 
 
14.12 Compliance with Sec 25(1), of “The General Insurance Business 
(Nationalization) Act 1972” 
 
Section 25(1) of “The General Insurance Business (Nationalization) Act 1972‟ 
is reproduced below: 
“No person shall take out or renew any policy of insurance in respect of any 
property in India or any ship or other vessel or aircraft registered in India 
with an insurer whose principal place of business is outside India save with 
the prior permission of the Central Government”. 
The above requirement of aforesaid Act needs to be complied with by the 
CONTRACTOR wherever the aforesaid provisions of Act apply, and 
compliance confirmations submitted. 
 
14.13 Loss Payee Clause: 
 
The Insurance Policies should mention the following in Loss Payee Clause: 
“In respect of Insurance claims in which OIL’s interest is involved, written 
consent of OIL will be required”. 
 
14.14 On account payment to OIL in case of claim 
 
In case any loss or damage happen and where OIL’s interest is involved, OIL 
reserves the right to recover the loss amount from the CONTRACTOR prior to 
final settlement of the claim. 
 
14.15 CONTRACTOR shall require all of its SUB-CONTRACTORs to provide such of 
the foregoing insurance cover as the CONTRACTOR is obligated to provide 
under this CONTRACT. 
 
14.16 CONTRACTOR shall at all time during the currency of the contract provide, 
pay for and maintain the following insurance amongst others: 
 
i) Workman Compensation and/Employers’ Liability Insurance: Workmen's 
compensation and employer's liability insurance as required by the laws of 
the country of origin of the employee. 

--- PAGE 58 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 58 of 273 
 
ii) Commercial General Liability Insurance: Commercial General Public 
Liability Insurance covering liabilities including contractual liability for bodily 
injury, including death of persons, and liabilities for damage of property. This 
insurance must cover all operations of CONTRACTOR required to fulfil the 
provisions under this Contract. 
 
iii) Comprehensive General Automotive Liability: Automobile Public Liability 
Insurance covering owned, non-owned and hired automobiles used in the 
performance of the work hereunder, with bodily injury limits and property 
damage limits shall be governed by Indian Insurance Regulations. 
 
iv)  Carrier’s Legal Liability Insurance: Carrier’s Legal Liability Insurance in 
respect of all CONTRACTOR’s items to be transported by the CONTRACTOR 
to the site of work, for physical loss or destruction of or damage to goods or 
merchandise, while in transit. 
 
v) Public Liability Act Policy: Public Liability Act Policy covering the statutory 
liability arising out of accidents occurring during the currency of the contract 
due to handling hazardous substances as provided in the Public Liability 
Insurance Act 1991 and the Rules framed there under. 
 
vi) Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) and Pradhan Mantri 
Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY): CONTRACTOR shall, ensure that all 
his/its personnel deployed under this contract have obtained additional 
insurance coverage under the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana 
(PMSBY) and Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) through 
the participating banks and submit the proof of such insurance coverage to 
the satisfaction of OIL. 
 
vii) CONTRACTOR's equipment used for execution of the work hereunder shall 
have an insurance cover with a suitable limit (as per international standards). 
 
viii) Any other insurance policy set forth in the SCC 
 
Note: An undertaking by the service provider has to be mandatorily 
provided during the Mobilization time that they have taken all the 
Insurance provisions as per the contract and as the Law and Insurance 
Regulation. 
 
15.0 LIABILITY: 
 
15.1 Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, neither COMPANY nor its 
servants, agents, nominees, CONTRACTORs, or sub- CONTRACTORs shall 
have any liability or responsibility whatsoever to whomsoever for loss of or 
damage to the equipment and/or loss of or damage to the property of the 
CONTRACTOR and/or their CONTRACTORs or sub-CONTRACTORs, 
irrespective of how such loss or damage is caused and even if caused by the 
negligence of COMPANY and/or its servants, agent, nominees, assignees, 
CONTRACTORs and sub-CONTRACTORs. 
 
15.2 The CONTRACTOR shall protect, defend, indemnify and hold harmless 

--- PAGE 59 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 59 of 273 
 
COMPANY from and against such loss or damage and any suit, claim or 
expense resulting there from. Neither COMPANY nor its servants, agents, 
nominees, assignees, CONTRACTORs, sub-CONTRACTORs shall have any 
liability or responsibility whatsoever for injury to, illness, or death of any 
employee of the CONTRACTOR and/or of its CONTRACTORs or sub-
CONTRACTOR irrespective of how such injury, illness or death is caused and 
even if caused by the negligence of COMPANY and/or its servants, agents 
nominees, assignees, CONTRACTORs and sub-CONTRACTORs. 
CONTRACTOR shall protect, defend, indemnify and hold harmless COMPANY 
from and against such liabilities and any suit, claim or expense resulting 
there from. 
 
15.3 The CONTRACTOR hereby agrees to waive its right of recourse and further 
agrees to cause its underwriters to waive their right of subrogation against 
COMPANY and/or its underwriters, servants, agents, nominees, assignees, 
CONTRACTORs and sub- CONTRACTORs for loss or damage to the 
equipment of the CONTRACTOR and/or its sub-CONTRACTORs and/or their 
employees when such loss or damage or liabilities arises out of or in 
connection with the performance of the contract limited to the 
CONTRACTOR’s liabilities agreed to under this Contract. 
 
15.4 The CONTRACTOR hereby further agrees to waive its right of recourse and 
agrees to cause its underwriters to waive their right of subrogation against 
COMPANY and/or its underwriters, servants, agents, nominees, assignees, 
CONTRACTORs and sub-CONTRACTORs for injury to, illness or death of any 
employee of the CONTRACTOR and of its CONTRACTORs, sub-
CONTRACTORs and/or their employees when such injury, illness or death 
arises out of or in connection with the performance of the contract limited to 
the CONTRACTOR’s liabilities agreed to under this Contract. 
 
15.5 Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, neither CONTRACTOR nor its 
servants, agents, nominees, CONTRACTORs or sub- CONTRACTORs shall 
have any liability or responsibility whatsoever to whomsoever for loss of or 
damage to the equipment and/or loss or damage to the property of the 
COMPANY and/or their CONTRACTORs or sub-CONTRACTORs, irrespective 
of how such loss or damage is caused and even if caused by the negligence of 
CONTRACTOR and/or its servants, agents, nominees, assignees, 
CONTRACTORs and sub-CONTRACTORs. The COMPANY shall protect, 
defend, indemnify and hold harmless CONTRACTOR from and against such 
loss or damage and any suit, claim or expense resulting there from. 
 
15.6 Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, neither CONTRACTOR nor its 
servants, agents, nominees, assignees, CONTRACTORs, sub- CONTRACTORs 
shall have any liability or responsibility whatsoever to whomsoever for injury 
or illness, or death of any employee of the COMPANY and/or of its 
CONTRACTORs or sub-CONTRACTORs irrespective of how such injury, 
illness or death is caused and even if caused by the negligence of 
CONTRACTOR and/or its servants, agents, nominees, assignees, 
CONTRACTORs and sub- CONTRACTORs. COMPANY shall protect, defend 
indemnify and hold harmless CONTRACTOR from and against such liabilities 

--- PAGE 60 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 60 of 273 
 
and any suit, claim or expense resulting there from. 
 
15.7 The COMPANY agrees to waive its right of recourse and further agrees to 
cause its underwriters to waive their right of subrogation against 
CONTRACTOR and/or its underwriters, servants, agents, nominees, 
assignees, CONTRACTORs and sub-CONTRACTORs for loss or damage to the 
equipment of COMPANY and/or its CONTRACTORs or sub-CONTRACTORs 
when such loss or damage or liabilities arises out of or in connection with the 
performance of the contract. 
 
15.8 The COMPANY hereby further agrees to waive its right of recourse and agrees 
to cause it underwriters to waive their right of subrogation against 
CONTRACTOR and/or its underwriters, servants, agents, nominees, 
assignees, CONTRACTORs and sub- CONTRACTORs for injury to, illness or 
death of any employee of the COMPANY and of its CONTRACTORs, sub-
CONTRACTORs and/or their employees when such injury, illness or death 
arises out of or in connection with the performance of the Contract. 
 
16.0 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY: 
 
a) Notwithstanding any other provisions herein to the contrary, except only in 
cases of Wilful misconduct and/or criminal acts and/or criminal negligence, 
neither the CONTRACTOR nor the COMPANY (OIL) shall be liable to the other, 
whether in Contract, tort, or otherwise, for any consequential loss or damage, 
loss of use, loss of production, or loss of profits or interest costs, provided 
however that this exclusion shall not apply to any obligation of the 
CONTRACTOR to pay Liquidated Damages to the COMPANY and/or 
COMPANY’s right to forfeit the Performance Bank Guarantee(s) in terms of the 
contract. 
 
b) Notwithstanding any other provisions incorporated elsewhere in the contract, 
the aggregate liability of the CONTRACTOR in respect of this contract, 
whether under Contract, in tort or otherwise, shall not exceed 100% of the 
Contract Price (if not specified otherwise in SCC), provided however that this 
limitation shall not apply to the cost of repairing or replacing defective 
equipment by the CONTRACTOR, or to any obligation of the CONTRACTOR to 
indemnify the COMPANY with respect to Intellectual Property Rights. 
 
c) COMPANY shall indemnify and keep indemnified CONTRACTOR harmless 
from and against any and all claims, costs, losses and liabilities in excess of 
the aggregate liability amount in terms of clause (b) above. 
 
17.0 LIABILITY OF UNION GOVERNMENT OF INDIA: 
 
It is expressly understood and agreed upon by and between CONTRACTOR 
and OIL INDIA LIMITED, and that OIL INDIA LIMITED is entering into this 
agreement solely on its own behalf and not on behalf of any other person or 
entity. In particular, it is expressly understood and agreed that Union of India 
is not a party to this agreement and has no liabilities, obligations or rights, 
whatsoever hereunder. It is expressly understood and agreed that OIL  INDIA 

--- PAGE 61 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 61 of 273 
 
LIMITED is an independent legal entity with power and authority to enter into 
contracts solely on its own behalf under the applicable laws of India and 
general principles of the Contract law. The bidder/ CONTRACTOR expressly 
agrees, acknowledges and understands that OIL INDIA LIMITED is not an 
agent, representative or delegate of the Union of India. It is further 
understood and agreed that Union of India is not and shall not be liable for 
any acts, omissions, commissions, breaches or other wrongs arising out of 
the contract. Accordingly, bidder/ CONTRACTOR hereby expressly waives, 
releases and foregoes any and all actions or claims, including cross claims, 
impleader claims or counter claims against the Union of India arising out of 
this contract and covenants not to sue the Union of India as to any manner, 
claim, cause of action or thing whatsoever arising of or under this agreement. 
 
18.0 CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGE:  
 
Except as otherwise expressly provided, neither party shall be liable to the 
other for special, indirect or consequential damages resulting from or arising 
out of the contract, including but without limitation, to loss or profit or 
business interruptions, howsoever caused and regardless of whether such 
loss or damage was caused by the negligence (either sole or concurrent) of 
either party, its employees, agents or sub- CONTRACTORs. 
 
19.0 RISK PURCHASE:  
 
 In the event, CONTRACTOR’s failure to provide the services as per the 
Contractual scope, terms and conditions, COMPANY (OIL) reserves the right 
to hire the services from any other source at the CONTRACTOR’s risk & cost 
and the difference in cost shall be borne by the CONTRACTOR. Further, OIL 
shall retain the right of forfeiture of Performance Bank Guarantee and any 
other action as deemed fit. In certain operational situations OIL reserves the 
right to take over the site including the service equipment at the risk and cost 
of the CONTRACTOR. 
 
20.0 INDEMNITY AGREEMENT: 
 
20.1 Except as provided hereof CONTRACTOR agrees to protect, defend, indemnify 
and hold COMPANY harmless from and against all claims, suits, demands 
and causes of action, liabilities, expenses, cost, liens and judgments of every 
kind and character, without limit, which may arise in favour of 
CONTRACTOR’s employees, agents, CONTRACTORs and sub-CONTRACTORs 
or their employees or in favour of any third party(is) on account of bodily 
injury or death, or damage to personnel/property as a result of the operations 
contemplated hereby, regardless of whether or not said claims, demands or 
causes of action arise out of the negligence or otherwise, in whole or in part 
or other faults. 
 
20.2 Except as provided hereof COMPANY agrees to protect, defend, indemnify and 
hold CONTRACTOR harmless from and against all claims, suits, demands 
and causes of action, liabilities, expenses, cost, liens and judgments of every 
kind and character, without limit, which may arise in favour of COMPANY’s 

--- PAGE 62 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 62 of 273 
 
employees, agents, CONTRACTORs and sub-CONTRACTORs or their 
employees or in favour of any third party(is) on account of bodily injury or 
death, or damage to personnel/property as a result of the operations 
contemplated hereby, regardless of whether or not said claims, demands or 
causes of action arise out of the negligence or otherwise, in whole or in part 
or other faults. 
 
21.0 INDEMNITY APPLICATION: 
 
The indemnities given herein above, whether given by COMPANY or 
CONTRACTOR shall be without regard to fault or to the negligence of either 
party even though said loss, damage, liability, claim, demand, expense, cost 
or cause of action may be caused, occasioned by or contributed to by the 
negligence, either sole or concurrent of either party. 
 
22.0 ROYALTY PATENTS: 
 
Each party shall hold harmless and indemnify the other from and against all 
claim and proceedings for or on account of any patent rights, design, trade 
mark or other protected rights arising from any use of materials, equipment, 
processes, inventions and methods, which have not been imposed on the 
attending party by the terms of the contract or the specifications forming part 
thereof. 
 
23.0 WARRANTY AND REMEDY OF DEFECTS: 
 
23.1 CONTRACTOR warrants that they shall perform the work in a first class, 
workmanlike, and professional manner and in accordance with their highest 
degree of quality, efficiency and current state of the art technology/industry 
practices and in conformity with all specifications, standards and drawings 
set forth or referred to in the Terms of Reference and with instructions and 
guidance, which COMPANY may, from time to time, furnish to the 
CONTRACTOR. 
 
23.2 Should COMPANY discover at any time during the tenure of the Contract or 
till the Unit/equipment/tools are demobilised from site or base camp (if 
applicable) that the work does not conform to the foregoing warranty, 
CONTRACTOR shall after receipt of notice from COMPANY, promptly perform 
any and all corrective work required to make the services conform to the 
Warranty. Such corrective Work shall be performed entirely at 
CONTRACTOR’s own expenses. If such corrective Work is not performed 
within a reasonable time, the COMPANY, at its option may have such 
remedial Work performed by others and charge the cost thereof to 
CONTRACTOR subject to a maximum of the contract value payable for the 
defective work which needs corrective action which the CONTRACTOR must 
pay promptly. In case CONTRACTOR fails to perform remedial work, or pay 
promptly in respect thereof, the performance security shall be forfeited. 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 63 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 63 of 273 
 
24.0 SUBCONTRACTING/ASSIGNMENT: 
 
24.1 CONTRACTOR shall not subcontract, transfer or assign the contract, or any 
part under this contract, to any third party(ies). Except for the main services 
under this contract, CONTRACTOR may sub-contract the petty support 
services subject to COMPANY’s prior written approval. However, 
CONTRACTOR shall be fully responsible for complete execution and 
performance of the services under the Contract. 
 
24.2 Consequent upon of placement of contract, if successful bidder(s)(other than 
Micro/Small Enterprise) is procuring materials/services from their sub-
vendor, who is a Micro or Small Enterprise registered with District Industry 
Centers or Khadi and Village Industries Commission or Khadi and Village 
Industries Board or Coir Board or National Small Industries Corporation or 
Directorate of Handicrafts and Handloom or any other body specified by 
Ministry of MSME with prior consent in writing of the purchasing 
authority/Engineer in Charge the details like Name, Registration No., 
Address, Contact No., details of material and value of procurement made, etc. 
of such enterprises shall be furnished by the CONTRACTOR at the time of 
submission of invoice/bill. 
 
25.0 RECORDS, REPORTS AND INSPECTION: 
 
The CONTRACTOR shall, at all times during the currency of the contract, 
permit the COMPANY and its authorized employees and representatives to 
inspect all the Work performed and to witness and check all the 
measurements and tests made in connection with the said work. The 
CONTRACTOR shall keep an authentic, accurate history and logs including 
safety records of each service item with major items consumed, which shall 
be open at all reasonable times for inspection by the COMPANY’s designated 
representatives and its authorized employees. The CONTRACTOR shall 
provide the COMPANY’s designated representatives with a daily written 
report, on form prescribed by the COMPANY showing details of operations 
during the preceding 24 hours and any other information related to the said 
services requested by the COMPANY whenever so requested. The 
CONTRACTOR shall not, without COMPANY's written consent allow any third 
person(s) access to the said information or give out to any third person 
information in connection therewith. 
 
26.0 CONFIDENTIALITY, USE OF CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND 
INFORMATION: 
 
26.1 CONTRACTOR shall not, without COMPANY's prior written consent, disclose 
the contract, or any provision thereof, or any specification, plan, drawing 
pattern, sample or information furnished by or on behalf of COMPANY in 
connection therewith, to any person other than a person employed by 
CONTRACTOR in the performance of the contract. Disclosure to any such 
employed person shall be made in confidence and shall extend only, as may 
be necessary for purposes of such performance with prior permission from 
COMPANY. However, nothing hereinabove contained shall deprive the 

--- PAGE 64 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 64 of 273 
 
CONTRACTOR of the right to use or disclose any information which is: 
 
a) possessed by the CONTRACTOR, as evidenced by the CONTRACTOR's written 
records, before receipt thereof from the COMPANY which however the 
CONTRACTOR shall immediately inform to COMPANY ; or 
b) required to be disclosed by the CONTRACTOR pursuant to an order of a court 
of competent jurisdiction or other governmental agency having the power to 
order such disclosure, provided the CONTRACTOR uses its best efforts to 
provide timely notice to COMPANY of such order to permit COMPANY an 
opportunity to contest such order subject to prior permission from COMPANY. 
 
26.2 CONTRACTOR shall not, without COMPANY's prior written consent, make 
use of any document or information except for purposes of performing the 
contract. 
 
26.3 Any document supplied to the CONTRACTOR in relation to the contract other 
than the Contract itself remain the property of COMPANY and shall be 
returned (in all copies) to COMPANY on completion of CONTRACTOR's 
performance under the Contract if so required by COMPANY. 
 
26.4 During the currency of the Contract, COMPANY and its employees, agents, 
other CONTRACTORs, sub-CONTRACTORs (of any tier) and their employees 
etc. may be exposed to certain confidential information and data of the 
CONTRACTOR. Such information and data held by the COMPANY, its 
employees, agents, other CONTRACTORs, sub-CONTRACTORs (of any tier) 
and their employees in the strictest Confidence and shall not be disclosed to 
any other party except on a need to know basis. 
 
However, the above obligation shall not extend to information which: 
i) is, at the time of disclosure, known to the public which CONTRACTOR shall 
immediately inform COMPANY ; 
ii) is lawfully becomes at a later date known to the public through no fault of 
CONTRACTOR subject to CONTRACTOR's undertaking that no information 
has been divulged by them to the public; 
iii) is lawfully possessed by CONTRACTOR before receipt thereof from COMPANY 
which should be immediately informed to COMPANY; 
iv) is developed by CONTRACTOR independently of the information disclosed by 
COMPANY which should be shared with the COMPANY; 
v) CONTRACTOR is required to produce before competent authorities or by 
court order subject to prior permission from COMPANY; 
 
27.0 REMUNERATION AND TERMS OF PAYMENT: 
 
27.1 COMPANY shall pay to the CONTRACTOR during the term of the Contract the 
amount due from time to time calculated according to the rates of payment 
set and in accordance with other provisions hereof. No other payments shall 
be due from COMPANY unless specifically provided for in the Contract. All 
payments will be made in accordance with the terms hereinafter described. 
 
27.2 Request for payment/part payment to third party i.e. other than the party on 
whom the contract has been awarded will not be entertained by OIL under 

--- PAGE 65 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 65 of 273 
 
any circumstances. 
 
27.3 MANNER OF PAYMENT: All payments due by COMPANY to CONTRACTOR 
hereunder shall be made at CONTRACTOR’s designated bank. Bank charges, 
if any will be on account of the CONTRACTOR. 
 
27.4 Payment of any invoices shall not prejudice the right of COMPANY to question 
the validity of any charges therein, provided COMPANY within one year after 
the date of payment shall make and deliver to CONTRACTOR written notice of 
objection to any item or items the validity of which COMPANY questions. 
 
27.5 INVOICES: Mobilization charges will be invoiced only upon completion of 
mobilization as certified by COMPANY representative and CONTRACTOR is 
ready at site for starting the services/operation. Payment of mobilization 
charges shall be made within 45 days following the date of receipt of 
undisputed invoices by COMPANY. 
 
27.6 CONTRACTOR shall send invoice to COMPANY on the day following the end of 
each month for all daily or monthly charges due to the CONTRACTOR. 
 
27.7 CONTRACTOR will submit 02 (Two) sets of all invoices duly super scribed 
`Original’ and `copy’ as applicable to the COMPANY for processing payment. 
Separate invoices for the charges payable under the contract shall be 
submitted by the CONTRACTOR for foreign currency and Indian currency. 
 
27.8 Payment of monthly invoices, if undisputed, shall be made within 30 days 
following the date of receipt of invoice by COMPANY. 
 
27.9 COMPANY shall within 30 days of receipt of the invoice notify the 
CONTRACTOR of any item under dispute, specifying the reasons thereof, in 
which event, payment of the disputed amount may be withheld until 
settlement of the dispute, but payment shall be made of any undisputed 
portion on or before the due date. This will not prejudice the COMPANY’s 
right to question the validity of the payment at a later date as envisaged in 
clause no. 27.4 above. 
 
27.10 The acceptance by CONTRACTOR of part payment on any billing not paid on 
or before the due date shall not be deemed a waiver of CONTRACTOR’s rights 
in any other billing, the payment of which may then or thereafter be due. 
 
27.11 Payment of Final demobilization charges shall be made if applicable within 45 
days on receipt of invoice by COMPANY accompanied by the following 
documents from the CONTRACTOR: 
 
a) Audited account up to completion of the Contract. 
b) Tax audit report for the above period as required under the Indian Tax Laws. 
c) Documentary evidence regarding the submission of returns and payment to 
taxes for the expatriate personnel engaged by the CONTRACTOR or by its 
sub-CONTRACTOR. 
d) Proof of re-export of all items including the unutilized spares and 
consumables (excepting consumables consumed during the contract period) 

--- PAGE 66 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 66 of 273 
 
and also cancellation of re-export bond if any. 
e) Any other documents as required by applicable Indian Laws. 
In case, no demobilization charges are payable, the documents mentioned 
above will have to be submitted by the CONTRACTOR before release of the 
final payment by the COMPANY. A certificate from Chartered Accountant on 
(a), (b) & (c) above will suffice 
 
27.12 CONTRACTOR shall maintain complete and correct records of all information 
on which CONTRACTOR’s invoice are based upto 02 (two) years from the date 
of last invoice. Such records shall be required for making appropriate 
adjustments or payments by either party in case of subsequent audit 
query/objection. 
 
28.0 PAYMENT OF COMMISSION/FEE/REMUNERATION OF INDIAN 
AGENT/CONSULTANT/REPRESENTATIVE/RETAINER/ASSOCIATE OF 
FOREIGN PRINCIPAL (APPLICABLE IN ICB TENDERS ONLY): 
 
The Commission/Fee/remuneration of the Indian agent/consultant/ 
associate/representative/retainer, if any, will be paid within 30 days of the 
payment of invoice made to the CONTRACTOR, The amount of 
commission/fee/remuneration as a percentage of invoice value as per 
contract provisions will be deducted by COMPANY/OIL from the monthly 
invoices of the CONTRACTOR and paid to the Indian 
agent/consultant/representative/retainer/associate. 
 
29.0 DETAILS OF STATUTORY PAYMENTS LIKE EPF AND ESI, ETC: 
 
Wherever applicable, the CONTRACTOR (including those engaging 
‘International Workers’) shall have itself registered under Employees’ 
Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 and Employees’ State 
Insurance Act, 1948 and follow the relevant statutory provisions including 
Rules made there-under concerning contractual workers. 
 
The CONTRACTOR shall be required to submit the following 
documents/details to the Corporation: 
 
(i) Copy of PF-ECR duly stamped by the designated Bank, alongwith a print of 
the digitally signed PDF data sheet of the ECR, as proof of payment, each 
month, details of this PDF data sheet shall be verified by the appropriate 
authority (i.e. Payment Making Authority) in the COMPANY from the official 
website of EPFO (http://www.epfindia.gov.in). 
 
(ii) (a) Copy of the online challan endorsed/stamped by the designated bank as 
proof of receipt of payment towards monthly contribution of ESI contribution. 
(b) Copy of Return of contribution in respect of ESI for each contribution 
period of the six months i.e. for the contribution period ended 30th Sept and 
the contribution period ended 31st March. 
 
(iii) As an Annexure to each EPF-ECR and ESI Challan(s), CONTRACTOR shall 
also furnish the following Certificates: 

--- PAGE 67 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 67 of 273 
 
1) The furnished information is correct to the best of his knowledge. 
2) In case any discrepancies or irregularities is /are noticed in this 
undertaking, then OIL is free to inform the PF/ESIC Authorities. 
3) Before the completion of contract, CONTRACTOR shall serve one-month 
notice to all his contractual workers, informing that their services will be 
terminated. 
4) Within one month on completion/expiry of the contract, CONTRACTOR 
shall pay all the dues/terminal dues such as leave with wages, bonus (if 
applicable), Gratuity (if applicable), to all his contractual workmen, failing 
which CONTRACTOR’s Bank Guarantee/Security Deposit may be withheld by 
OIL. 
 
COMPANY may verify the deposit of statutory contribution made by the 
CONTRACTORs with the EPFO/ESI authorities, where deemed necessary. 
However, before making payment of the last bill/invoice of the CONTRACTOR, 
the COMPANY may verify the details/status of the payment towards EPF/ESI 
made by the CONTRACTOR from the authorities/official website of EPF/ESI 
(i.e. http://www.epfindia.gov.in and http://www.esic.in). In case the 
information furnished by the CONTRACTOR is found to be incorrect the 
COMPANY shall take appropriate action against the CONTRACTOR in 
accordance with law. 
 
The CONTRACTOR agrees and undertakes to indemnify OIL for any liabilities 
arising out of declarations made by him in future on violation or provisions of 
the EPF Act 1952 and ESI Act 1948. 
 
30.0 TIMELY MOBILIZATION AND LIQUIDATED DAMAGES: 
 
a) Time is the essence of this Contract. If the CONTRACTOR fails to mobilize and 
deploy the required manpower/equipment and/or fails to commence the 
operation within the period specified as specified under mobilization clause 
under SCC, OIL shall have, without prejudice to any other right or remedy in 
law or contract including sub clause (b) below, the right to terminate the 
contract. 
 
b) If the contractor is unable to mobilize/deploy and commence the operation 
within the period specified in sub clause (a) above, it may request OIL for 
extension of the time with unconditionally agreeing for levy and recovery of 
LD. Upon receipt of such a request, OIL may at its discretion, extend the 
period of mobilization and shall recover from the CONTRACTOR, as an 
ascertained and agreed Liquidated Damages, a sum equivalent to @ 0.5% of 
contract value including mobilization cost, per week or part thereof of delay 
subject to maximum of 7.5% of the Contract Price. 
 
c) The parties agree that the sum specified above is not a penalty but a genuine 
pre-estimate of the loss/damage which will be suffered by OIL on account of 
delay on the part of the CONTRACTOR and the said amount will be payable 
without proof of actual loss or damage caused by such delay. 
 
d) LD will be calculated on the basis of Total Contract value [(if not specified 

--- PAGE 68 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 68 of 273 
 
otherwise in SCC] excluding duties and taxes, where such duties/taxes have 
been shown separately in the contract. However, the applicable GST on the 
LD shall have to be borne by the CONTRACTOR. Accordingly, the liquidated 
damages shall be recovered from the CONTRACTOR along with applicable 
GST. 
 
31.0 FORCE MAJEURE: 
 
In the event of either party being rendered unable by `Force Majeure' to 
perform any obligation required to be performed by them under the contract, 
the relative obligation of the party affected by such `Force Majeure' will stand 
suspended as provided herein. The term force majeure as employed herein 
shall mean Acts of God such as earthquake, hurricane, typhoon, flood, 
volcanic activity etc.; war (declared/undeclared); riot, revolts, rebellion, 
terrorism, sabotage by persons other than the CONTRACTOR’s Personnel; 
fires, explosions, ionising radiation or contamination by radio-activity or 
noxious gas, if not caused by CONTRACTOR's fault; declared epidemic or 
disaster; acts and regulations of respective Govt. of the two parties, namely 
the COMPANY and the CONTRACTOR and civil commotions, lockout not 
attributable to the CONTRACTOR. 
Upon occurrence of such cause, the party claiming that it has been rendered 
unable as aforesaid thereby, shall notify the other party in writing within 72 
(Seventy Two) hours of the alleged beginning and ending thereof, giving full 
particulars and satisfactory evidence in support of its claim. 
Should ‘force majeure’ condition as stated above occurs and should the same 
be notified within 72 (Seventy two) hours after its occurrence the `force 
majeure' rate (if specified in the SCC of the Contract) shall apply for the first 
15 (fifteen) days for each such occasion. 
 
Either party shall have the right to terminate the Contract if such `force 
majeure' conditions continue beyond successive 60 (Sixty) days [or exclusively 
mentioned in the SCC of the Contract] with prior written notice of 15 days, 
provided termination of the Contract does not result into safety hazard to the 
life and property on account of withdrawal of operations or the operation is at 
critical stage. COMPANY shall have the absolute right to decide whether any 
safety hazard exists or operation is at critical position and decision of the 
COMPANY shall binding upon the CONTRACTOR. 
 
Should either party decide not to terminate the Contract even under such 
condition, no payment would apply after expiry of fifteen (15) days force 
majeure period. [or exclusively mentioned in the SCC of the Contract] 
Time for performance of the relative obligation suspended by Force Majeure 
shall then stand extended by the period for which such cause lasts. 
 
If however, relative obligation of the party affected by such ‘Force Majeure’ is 
limited to part of the obligation(s), the contract shall not be terminated and 
the parties shall continue to perform their respective obligations, which are 
not affected by the ‘force majeure’ condition, provided the obligations affected 
by the ‘force majeure’ do not preclude the parties in performing the 
obligations not affected by such conditions. 

--- PAGE 69 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 69 of 273 
 
32.0 SET-OFF: 
 
Any sum of money due and payable to the CONTRACTOR (including 
Performance Security refundable to them) under this or any other Contract, 
whether in progress or in future, may be appropriated by OIL and set-off 
against any claim of OIL (or such other person or persons contracting 
through OIL) for payment of a sum of money arising out of this contract or 
under any other contract made by the CONTRACTOR with OIL (or such other 
person or persons contracting through OIL). 
 
33.0 WITHHOLDING: 
 
COMPANY may withhold or nullify the whole or any part of the amount due to 
CONTRACTOR, after informing the CONTRACTOR of the reasons in writing, 
on account of subsequently discovered evidence in order to protect COMPANY 
from loss on account of: 
 
33.1 For non-completion of jobs assigned as per Scope of Work/Terms of 
Reference. 
 
33.2 Defective work not remedied by CONTRACTOR. 
 
33.3 Claims by COMPANY’s recognized sub-CONTRACTOR of CONTRACTOR or 
others filed or on the basis of reasonable evidence indicating probable filing of 
such claims against CONTRACTOR. 
 
33.4 Failure of CONTRACTOR to pay or provide for the payment of salaries/wages, 
contributions, taxes or enforced savings with-held from wages etc with 
respect to personnel engaged by the CONTRACTOR. 
 
33.5 Failure of CONTRACTOR to pay the cost of removal of unnecessary debris, 
materials, tools, or machinery. 
 
33.6 Any failure by CONTRACTOR to fully reimburse COMPANY under any of the 
indemnification provisions of this Contract. If, during the progress of the work 
CONTRACTOR shall allow any indebtedness to accrue for which 
CONTRACTOR, under any circumstances in the opinion of COMPANY, may be 
primarily or contingently liable or ultimately responsible and CONTRACTOR 
shall, within five days after demand is made by COMPANY, fail to pay and 
discharge such indebtedness, then COMPANY may during the period for 
which such indebtedness shall remain unpaid, with-hold from the amounts 
due to CONTRACTOR, a sum equal to the amount of such unpaid 
indebtedness. 
 
33.7 Withholding will also be effected on account of the following: 
 
i) Order issued by a Court of Law or statutory authority in India. 
ii) Income-tax deductible at source according to law prevalent from time to time 
in the country. 
iii) Any obligation of CONTRACTOR which by any law prevalent from time to time 
to be discharged by COMPANY in the event of CONTRACTOR's failure to 

--- PAGE 70 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 70 of 273 
 
adhere to such laws. 
iv) Any payment due from CONTRACTOR in respect of unauthorised imports. 
When all the above grounds for withholding payments are removed, payment 
shall thereafter be made for amounts so with-held. 
 
33.8 COMPANY reserves the right to disburse or deposit the amount so withheld to 
the concerned person(s) or agency or government authority, as the case may 
be, besides nullifying such amount on account of loss suffered by the 
COMPANY against 33.2, 33.3, 33.6 & 33.7 above. 
 
34.0 APPLICABLE LAWS: 
 
The Contract shall be deemed to be a Contract made under, governed by and 
construed in accordance with the laws of India for the time being in force and 
shall be subject to the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of Courts situated in 
Dibrugarh (or the Place where the contract is executed) and Principal Bench 
of Gauhati High Court (or the High Court under whose territorial jurisdiction, 
the place of execution of contract falls). 
 
This Agreement including all matter connected with this Agreement, shall be 
governed by the laws of India (both substantive and procedural) for the time 
being in force and shall be subject to exclusive jurisdiction of Courts, 
mentioned hereinabove. Foreign companies, operating in India or entering 
into Joint ventures in India, shall also be governed by the laws of India and 
shall be subject to sole and exclusive jurisdiction of above Courts. 
The CONTRACTOR shall ensure full compliance of various Indian Laws and 
Statutory Regulations, as stated below, to the extent applicable, as stated 
below, but not limited to, in force from time to time and obtain necessary 
permits/ licenses etc. from appropriate authorities for conducting operations 
under the Contract: 
 
a) The Mines Act 1952 
b) The Oil Mines Regulations, 1984 
c) The Employees’ Compensation Act, 1923 
d) The Code of Wages, 2019 
e) The Contract Labour (Regulation & Abolition) Act, 1970 and the rules 
framed there under. 
f) The Employees Pension Scheme, 1995 
g) The Interstate Migrant Workmen Act., 1979 (Regulation of employment 
and conditions of service). 
h) The Employees Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 
i) Goods and Service Tax Act 
j) Customs & Excise Act & Rules 
k) Factories Act, 1948 
l) Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
m) Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 
n) Environmental Protection Act, 1986 & other pollution control Acts. 
Note: The above Acts are only indicative and not exhaustive. The Acts shall 
include the rules and regulations framed thereunder. 
 

--- PAGE 71 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 71 of 273 
 
35.0 LABOUR LAWS: 
 
i) CONTRACTOR shall comply with the provisions of various labour related 
laws, including but not limited to the Code of Wages, 2019, Employee 
Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act 1952, COMPANY’s Liability 
Act 1938, Employees’ Compensation Act 1923, Industrial Disputes Act 1947, 
the Maternity Benefit Act 1961 and Contract Labour (Regulation and 
Abolition) Act 1970, Employment of Children Act 1938, Employees’ State 
Insurance Act, 1948 or any modifications/amendment thereof or any other 
law relating thereto and rules made there under from time to time. 
ii) No Labour below the age of eighteen [18] years shall be employed on the work. 
iii) CONTRACTOR shall not pay less than what is provided under law to 
labourers engaged by him on the work. 
iv) CONTRACTOR shall at his expense comply with all labour laws and keep the 
COMPANY indemnified in respect thereof. 
v) CONTRACTOR shall pay equal wages for men and women in accordance with 
applicable Labour laws. 
vi) If the CONTRACTOR is covered under the Contract Labour (Regulation and 
Abolition) Act, he shall obtain a license from licensing authority [i.e. office of 
the Labour Commissioner] by payment of necessary prescribed fee and the 
deposit, if any, before starting the work under the Contract. Such fee/deposit 
shall be borne by the CONTRACTOR. 
vii) CONTRACTOR must obtain the PF Code from the concerned PF Authority 
under Employees Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952. 
Similarly, CONTRACTOR must obtain ESI Code under Employees State 
Insurance Act. 
viii) CONTRACTOR being the employer of the labours/personnel to be engaged 
under the contract shall be liable to pay gratuity to the labours/personnel as 
per the provision of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 and accordingly, shall 
keep the COMPANY indemnified in respect thereof. If however, COMPANY 
requires to pay gratuity to such labour(s) as per the direction of the 
competent authority under the Act, COMPANY shall recover such amount 
from the outstanding dues payable to the CONTRACTOR under the contract 
or any other contract(s). 
ix) CONTRACTOR shall furnish to Engineer in Charge the distribution return of 
the number & description, by trades of the work people employed on the 
works. CONTRACTOR shall also submit on the 4th& 19th of every month to 
Engineer in Charge a true statement showing in respect of the 2nd half of the 
preceding month & the 1st half of the current month (1) the accidents that 
occurred during the said fortnight showing the circumstances under which 
they happened and the extent of damage and injury caused by them and (2) 
the number of female workers who have been allowed Maternity Benefit as 
provided in the Maternity Benefit Act 1961 on Rules made there under and 
the amount paid to them. 
x) Engineer in Charge shall on a report having been made by an inspecting 
officer as defined in Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act 1970 have 
the power to deduct from the money due to the CONTRACTOR any sum 
required or estimated to be required for making good the loss suffered by a 
worker or workers by reason of non-fulfillment of the conditions of the 
Contract for the benefit of workers, non-payment of wages or of deductions 

--- PAGE 72 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 72 of 273 
 
made from his or their wages which are not justified by the terms of the 
Contract or non-observance of the said regulations. 
xi) The CONTRACTOR shall indemnify the COMPANY against any payments to 
be made under and for the observance of the provisions of the aforesaid acts 
without prejudice to his right to obtain indemnity from his sub-
CONTRACTOR. 
 
36.0 STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS: 
 
During the tenure of this CONTRACT nothing shall be done by the 
CONTRACTOR in contravention of any law, act and/or rules/regulations, 
thereunder or any amendment 
 
37.0 GENERAL HEALTH, SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT (HSE) GUIDELINES: 
 
37.1 It will be solely the CONTRACTOR's responsibility to fulfil all the legal 
formalities with respect to the Health, Safety and Environmental aspects of 
the entire job (namely; the person employed by him, the equipment, the 
environment, etc.) under the jurisdiction of the district of that state where it 
is operating. Ensure that all sub-CONTRACTORs hired by CONTRACTOR 
comply with the same requirement as the CONTRACTOR himself and shall be 
liable for ensuring compliance all HSE laws. 
 
37.2 It will be entirely the responsibility of the Contractor/his 
Supervisor/representative to ensure strict adherence to all HSE measures 
and statutory rules during operation in OIL's installations and safety of 
workers engaged by him. The crew members will not refuse to follow any 
instruction given by company's Installation Manager/Safety 
Officer/Engineer/Official/Supervisor/Junior Engineer for safe operation. 
 
37.3 Any compensation arising out of the job carried out by the Contractor 
whether related to pollution, Safety or Health will be paid by the contractor 
only. 
 
37.4 Any compensation arising due to accident of the Contractor's personnel while 
carrying out the job, will be payable by the contractor. 
 
37.5 When there is a significant risk to health, environment or safety of a person 
or place arising because of a non-compliance of HSE Measures Company 
shall have the right to direct the contractor to cease work until the non-
compliance is corrected. 
 
38.0 POLLUTION AND CONTAMINATION: 
 
The CONTRACTOR shall be liable for all surface and sub-surface pollution to 
the extent caused by CONTRACTOR and resulting from CONTRACTOR’s 
operation/service or spillage or dumping of solvents/additive substances or 
pollutants, which the CONTRACTOR brings to the Site for use in connection 
with Work to be performed under this Contract. 
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, it is agreed that 

--- PAGE 73 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 73 of 273 
 
except on the ground of willful misconduct or criminal misconduct, 
COMPANY shall release, indemnify and hold CONTRACTOR and its sub-
CONTRACTORs harmless from any and all claims, judgments, losses, 
expenses and any costs related thereto (including but not limited to Court 
costs and “Attorney’s fees”) for: 
 
a) Damage to or loss of any reservoir or producing formation; and/ or 
b) Damage to or loss of any well; and/or 
c) Any other subsurface damage or loss; and/ or 
d) Any property damage or loss or personal injury or death arising out of or in 
connection with a blowout, fire explosion and loss of well control regardless of 
cause. 
 
39.0 STATUTORY VARIATION/NEWLY ENACTED LAW: 
 
39.1 All duties, taxes except otherwise specified in the Contract as applicable on 
the closing date of bid submission as per relevant acts and rules shall be in 
CONTRACTOR’s account. Variation in case of custom duty on CIF value 
declared by the bidder shall be to COMPANY account. 
 
39.2 In the event of introduction of any new legislation or any amendment or 
enforcement of any Act or Law, rules or regulations of Government of India or 
State Government(s) or Public Body, which becomes effective after the date of 
submission of Price Bid or revised price bid, if any, for this CONTRACT and 
which results in increased/decreased cost of the works under the CONTRACT 
through increased/decreased liability of taxes and/or duties, required to be 
paid by the CONTRACTOR, (other than personnel and Corporate taxes), the 
Parties shall agree to a revision in pricing to reflect such change subject to 
the production of documentary proof to the satisfaction of the 
COMPANY/CONTRACTOR as applicable to the extent which directly is 
attributable to such introduction of new legislation or change or amendment 
as mentioned above and adjudication by the competent authority (applicable 
when disputed by COMPANY) & the courts wherever levy of such taxes/duties 
are disputed by COMPANY/CONTRACTOR. 
 
39.3 Any increase in net amount of the duties and taxes (i.e. the amount of 
taxes/duties payable minus eligible credit of taxes/duties paid on input 
services/inputs) after the contractual completion/mobilization date during 
the extended period will be to the CONTRACTOR’s account, where delay in 
completion/mobilization period is attributable to the CONTRACTOR. 
However, any decrease in net amount of the duties and taxes (i.e. the amount 
of taxes/duties payable minus eligible credit of taxes/duties paid on input 
services/inputs) after the contractual completion/mobilization date will be to 
COMPANY’s account. 
 
39.4 The Contract Price and other prices given in the Schedule of Prices are based 
on the applicable tariff as indicated by the CONTRACTOR in the Schedule of 
Prices. In case this information subsequently proves to be wrong, incorrect or 
misleading, COMPANY will have no liability to reimburse/pay to the 
CONTRACTOR the excess duties, taxes, fees, if any finally levied/imposed by 
the concerned authorities. However, in such an event, COMPANY will have 

--- PAGE 74 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 74 of 273 
 
the right to recover the difference in case the rate of duty/tax finally assessed 
is on the lower side. 
 
39.5 Notwithstanding the provision contained in Clause-39.1 to 39.4 above, the 
COMPANY shall not bear any liability in respect of: 
 
i. Personal taxes on the personnel deployed by CONTRACTOR, his sub-
CONTRACTOR/sub-sub-CONTRACTORs and Agents etc. 
ii. Corporate taxes and Fringe benefit tax in respect of CONTRACTOR and all of 
their sub-CONTRACTORs, agents etc. 
iii. Other taxes & duties including Customs Duty and GST in addition to new 
taxes etc. in respect of sub-CONTRACTORs, vendors, agents etc. of the 
CONTRACTOR. 
iv. Any liability on the CONTRACTOR, which was accrued under the old law or 
contract, which the CONTRACTOR is obligated to pay either to the COMPANY 
or to the Government Authority. 
 
39.6 In order to ascertain the net impact of the amendment/ revisions/enactment 
of various provisions of taxes/duties, the CONTRACTOR is liable to provide 
following disclosure to COMPANY: 
 
i. Details of each of the input services used in relation to providing service to 
COMPANY including estimated monthly value of input service and GST tax 
amount. 
ii. Details of Inputs (material/consumable) used/required for providing service 
to COMPANY including estimated monthly value of input and GST 
paid/payable on purchase of inputs. 
 
39.7 The above provisions would be applicable only in case of variation in rate of 
taxes and duties on supply of services to OIL and not applicable on taxes and 
duties on input (goods and services) towards such services. 
 
39.8 Any claim or reduction on account of change in law shall be accompanied 
with undertaking that the provisions of anti- profiteering clause under GST 
Act have been complied with. 
 
40.0 SEVERABILITY:  
 
Should any provision of this agreement be found to be invalid, illegal or 
otherwise not enforceable by any court of law, such finding shall not affect 
the remaining provisions hereto and they shall remain binding on the parties 
hereto. 
 
41.0 COMMISSION OF MISCONDUCT/SUBMISSION OF FRAUDULENT 
DOCUMENT BY THE BIDDER/CONTRACTOR AND BANNING THEREOF: 
 
The information and documents furnished by the bidder/CONTRACTOR in 
respect of the tender/contract are accepted by COMPANY to be true and 
genuine. However, if it comes to the notice of the COMPANY anytime either 
during the pendency of the tender or after award of the contract or after 
completion the contract that a Bidder/CONTRACTOR furnished fraudulent 

--- PAGE 75 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 75 of 273 
 
document/false information in relation to the subject tender/contract or 
committed any misconduct, appropriate action shall be taken against the 
Bidder/CONTRACTOR for debarment/banning of the bidder/CONTRACTOR 
from participating in any future tender of the COMPANY in terms of the 
COMPANY’s Banning Policy, 2017 besides making the CONTRACTOR liable 
for other penal action including termination of ongoing contract(s) at his/her 
risk and peril. In such event, the Performance Security in respect of ongoing 
contract(s) shall be forfeited by the COMPANY. 
 
42.0 SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES: 
 
42.1 Arbitration (Applicable for Suppliers/CONTRACTORs other than PSU and 
MSME): 
 
1) Except as otherwise provided elsewhere in the contract, if any dispute, 
difference, question or disagreement arises between the parties hereto or their 
respective representatives or assignees, in connection with construction, 
meaning, operation, effect, interpretation of the contract or breach thereof 
which parties are unable to settle mutually, the same shall be referred to 
Arbitration as provided hereunder: 
2) A party wishing to commence arbitration proceeding shall invoke Arbitration 
Clause by giving 30 days notice to the other party. The notice invoking 
arbitration shall specify all the points of dispute with details of the amount 
claimed to be referred to arbitration at the time of invocation of arbitration 
and not thereafter. If the claim is in foreign currency, the claimant shall 
indicate its value in Indian Rupee for the purpose of constitution of the 
arbitral tribunal. 
3) It is agreed and undertaken by the Parties that irrespective of country of 
origin of the CONTRACTOR, the arbitration proceedings shall be governed by 
the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and under no circumstances, the 
proceedings shall be construed as International Arbitration. 
4) The number of arbitrators and the appointing authority will be as under: 
 
Claim amount 
(excluding claim for interest and 
counter claim, if any) 
Number of Arbitrator Appointing Authority 
Upto Rs.25.00 Lakh Not applicable Not applicable 
Above Rs.25.00 Lakh 
Upto Rs.25 Crore 
Sole Arbitrator OIL 
Above Rs. 25 Crore 3 Arbitrators One Arbitrator by each 
party and the 3 rd 
Arbitrator, who shall be 
the presiding Arbitrator, 
by the two Arbitrators. 
 
5) The parties agree that they shall appoint only those persons as arbitrators 
who accept the conditions of the arbitration clause. No person shall be 
appointed as Arbitrator or Presiding Arbitrator who does not accept the 
conditions of the arbitration clause. 

--- PAGE 76 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 76 of 273 
 
6) If any of the Arbitrators so appointed dies, resigns, becomes incapacitated or 
withdraws for any reason from the proceedings, it shall be lawful for the 
concerned party/arbitrators to appoint another person in his place in the 
same manner as aforesaid. Such person shall proceed with the reference from 
the stage where his predecessor had left if both parties consent for the same; 
otherwise, he shall proceed de novo. 
7) Parties agree and undertake that neither shall be entitled for any pre- 
reference or pendente-lite interest on its claims. Parties agree that any claim 
for such interest made by any party shall be void. 
8) The arbitral tribunal shall complete the proceedings, make and publish the 
award within time stipulated in the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996(as 
amended) 
9) If after commencement of the arbitration proceedings, the parties agree to 
settle the dispute mutually or refer the dispute to conciliation, the arbitrators 
shall put the proceedings in abeyance until such period as requested by the 
parties. Where the proceedings are put in abeyance or terminated on account 
of mutual settlement of dispute by the parties, the fees payable to the 
arbitrators shall be determined as under: 
(i) 20% of the fees if the claimant has not submitted statement of claim. 
(ii) 40% of the fees if the pleadings are complete 
(iii) 60% of the fees if the hearing has commenced. 
(iv) 80% of the fees if the hearing is concluded but the award is yet to be passed. 
10) Each party shall be responsible to make arrangements for the travel and stay 
etc. of the arbitrator appointed by it. Claimant shall also be responsible for 
making arrangements for travel/stay arrangements of the Presiding Arbitrator 
and the expenses incurred shall be shared equally by the parties. 
In case of sole arbitrator, both parties shall equally share all expenditures 
that may be required to be incurred. 
11) The fees and other administrative/secretarial expenses of the arbitrator(s) 
shall not exceed the model fee as stipulated in Schedule of the Act and such 
expenses shall be equally borne by the parties. 
12) The Place/Seat of Arbitration shall be Guwahati or the place where the 
contract is executed. The venue of the arbitration shall be decided by the 
Arbitrator(s) in discussion with the parties. The cost of arbitration sittings 
shall be equally borne by the parties. 
13) The Arbitrator(s) shall give reasoned and speaking award and it shall be final 
and binding on the parties. 
14) Subject to aforesaid, provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 
and any statutory modifications or re-enactment thereof shall apply to the 
arbitration proceedings under this clause. 
 
42.2 Arbitration (applicable in case of Contract awarded on Public Sector 
Enterprise): 
 
a) In the event of any dispute or difference relating to the interpretation and 
application of the provisions of commercial contract (s) between Central 
Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) and also between CPSEs and Government 
Departments/Organizations (excluding disputes -concerning Railways, 
Income Tax, Customs & Excise Departments), such dispute or difference shall 
be taken up by either party for resolution through AMRCD as mentioned in 

--- PAGE 77 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 77 of 273 
 
OPE OM No. 4(1)/2013-DPE(GM)/FTS-1835 dated 22-05-2018. 
b) A party wishing to commence arbitration proceeding shall invoke Arbitration 
Clause and refer the dispute(s) to AMRCD with a copy to the other party. The 
notice invoking arbitration shall specify all the points of dispute with details 
of the amount claimed to be referred to arbitration at the time of invocation of 
arbitration and not thereafter 
c) Upon such reference, the dispute shall be decided by the Competent 
Authority appointed under the AMRCD, whose decision shall bind the parties 
finally and conclusively. The parties in the dispute will share equally the cost 
of the arbitration as intimated by the Arbitrator. 
 
42.3 Arbitration (Applicable to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise) 
In the event of any dispute or difference relating to, arising from or connected 
with the Contract, efforts shall be made to resolve the dispute(s) amicably by 
mutual consultation and in case such dispute(s) cannot be resolved through 
mutual consultation, then same shall be resolved through the procedure as 
prescribed in Section-18 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises 
Development Act, 2006. 
 
42.4 Resolution of disputes through conciliation by OEC 
(Not Applicable in cases where value of dispute is less than Rs. 25 Lakhs and 
more than 2 Crore) 
 
 If any dispute, difference, question or disagreement arises between the parties 
hereto or their respective representatives or assignees, in connection with 
construction, meaning, operation, effect, interpretation of the contract or 
breach thereof which parties are unable to settle mutually, Company at its 
discretion, on its own or on the request of the CONTRACTOR, may refer the 
dispute to Outside Expert Committee (“OEC”) to be constituted by Corporate 
Business Committee (CBC), OIL as provided hereunder: 
 
a) The party desirous of resorting to conciliation shall send a notice of 30 (thirty) 
days to the other party of its intention of referring the dispute for resolution 
through OEC. The notice invoking conciliation shall specify all the points of 
disputes with details of the amount claimed to be referred to OEC and the 
party concerned shall not raise any new issue thereafter. 
b) OIL shall nominate three outside experts, one each from 
Financial/commercial, Technical and Legal fields from the Panel of Outside 
Experts maintained by OIL who shall together be referred to as OEC (Outside 
Experts Committee). 
c) Parties shall not claim any interest on claims/counterclaims from the date of 
notice invoking conciliation till execution of settlement agreement, if so 
arrived at. In case, parties are unable to reach a settlement, no interest shall 
be claimed by either party for the period from the date of notice invoking 
conciliation till the date of OEC recommendations in any further proceeding. 
d) The Proceedings of the OEC shall be broadly governed by Part III of the 
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 including any modifications thereof. 
Notwithstanding above, the proceedings shall be summary in nature and 
Parties agree to rely only upon documentary evidence in support of their 
claims and not to bring any oral evidence in the OEC proceedings. 

--- PAGE 78 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 78 of 273 
 
e) OEC shall hear both the parties and recommend possible terms of settlement 
between the parties. The recommendations of OEC shall be non-binding and 
the parties may decide to accept or not to accept the same. Parties shall be at 
liberty to accept the OEC recommendation with any modification they may 
deem fit. 
f) Where recommendations are acceptable to both the parties, a settlement 
agreement will be drawn up in terms of the OEC recommendations or with 
such modifications as may be agreed upon by the parties. The settlement 
agreement shall be signed by both the parties and authenticated by all the 
OEC members either in person or through circulation. This settlement 
agreement shall have the same legal status and effect as that of an arbitration 
award on agreed terms on the substance of the dispute rendered by an 
arbitral tribunal under Section 30 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 
1996. 
g) OIL will share all other guidelines regarding reconciliation through OEC with 
the CONTRACTOR when it resorts to settlement through OEC. Both parties 
agree to adhere to these guidelines. 
h) All the expenditure incurred in the OEC proceedings shall be shared by the 
parties in equal proportion. The parties shall maintain account of expenditure 
and present to the other for the purpose of sharing on conclusion of the OEC 
proceedings. 
i) The OEC proceedings must be completed within a period of 3(three) months 
from the date of constitution of the OEC with a provision of extension of one 
months, subject to mutual agreement. The Place of OEC shall be either at 
New Delhi or Guwahati. 
j) If the parties are not able to resolve the dispute through OEC or do not opt for 
conciliation through OEC, the party may invoke arbitration clause as 
provided in the contract. 
k) The parties shall be represented by their in-house employees/executives. No 
party shall bring any advocate or outside consultant/advisor/agent. Ex-
officers of OIL who have handled the matter in any capacity directly or 
indirectly shall not be allowed to attend and present the case before OEC on 
behalf of Contractor. However, ex- employees of parties may represent their 
respective organizations. 
l) Solicitation or any attempt to bring influence of any kind on either OEC 
Members or OIL is completely prohibited in conciliation proceedings and OIL 
reserves the absolute right to close the conciliation proceedings at its sole 
discretion if it apprehends any kind of such attempt made by the Contractor 
or its representatives. 
 
42.5 Exclusions 
 
 Parties agree that following matters shall not be referred to conciliation or 
arbitration: 
 
i) Any claim, difference or dispute relating to, connected with or arising out of 
OIL’s decision to initiate any proceedings for suspension or debarment or 
banning, or decision to suspend or to ban or to debar business dealings with 
the bidder/CONTRACTOR and/or with any other person involved or 
connected or dealing with bid/contract/bidder/CONTRACTOR. 

--- PAGE 79 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 79 of 273 
 
ii) Any claim, difference or dispute relating to, connected with or arising out of 
OIL’s decision under the provisions of Integrity Pact executed between OIL 
and the Bidder/CONTRACTOR. 
iii) Any claim, difference or dispute relating to, connected with or arising out of 
OIL’s decision to comply with any order or directive of any statutory or 
government authority. 
iv) Any claim which is less than Rs. 25 Lakh. 
 
43.0 COMPLETION OF CONTRACT: 
 
 Unless otherwise terminated under the provisions of any other relevant 
Clause or extended through written communication, this Contract shall be 
deemed to have been completed at the expiry of the Period specified in the 
contract or period of defect liability, as provided for under the Contract, 
whichever is later. 
 
44.0 TERMINATION: 
 
44.1 Termination on expiry of the contract: This Agreement shall be deemed to 
have been automatically terminated on the expiry of the contract period 
unless OIL has exercised its option to extend this contract in accordance with 
the provisions, if any, of this contract. 
 
44.2 Termination of contract for death: If the CONTRACTOR is an individual or 
a proprietary concern and the individual or the proprietor dies or if the 
CONTRACTOR is a partnership concern and one of the partners dies then 
unless, the COMPANY is satisfied that the legal heir of the individual or the 
proprietary concern or the surviving partners are capable of carrying out and 
completing Contract, the COMPANY is entitled to cancel the Contract for the 
uncompleted part without being in any way liable for any compensation 
payment to the estate of the deceased CONTRACTOR and/or to the surviving 
partners of the CONTRACTOR's firm on account of the cancellation of 
Contract. The decision of the COMPANY in such assessment shall be final & 
binding on the parties. In the event of such cancellation, the COMPANY shall 
not hold the estate of the deceased CONTRACTOR and/or the surviving 
partners of CONTRACTOR's firm liable for any damages for non-completion of 
the Contract. 
 
44.3 Termination on account of Force Majeure: Unless the contract provides 
otherwise, either party shall have the right to terminate this Contract on 
account of Force Majeure as set forth in Article-31.0 above. 
 
44.4 Termination on account of insolvency: In the event that the CONTRACTOR 
or its collaborator or its guarantor at any time during the term of the 
Contract, becomes insolvent or makes a voluntary assignment of its assets for 
the benefit of creditors or is adjudged bankrupt or under the process of 
insolvency or liquidation, then the COMPANY shall, by a notice in writing 
have the right to terminate the Contract and all the CONTRACTOR’s rights 
and privileges hereunder, shall stand terminated forthwith. 
 However, COMPANY shall be at liberty to give the Receiver or Liquidator or 
Insolvency Professional Manager, as appointed by the Competent 

--- PAGE 80 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 80 of 273 
 
Court/Tribunal, the option of carrying out the Contract subject to its 
technical & financial competence and his providing a guarantee for due and 
faithful performance of the Contract. 
 
44.5 Termination for Unsatisfactory Performance: If the COMPANY considers 
that, the performance of the CONTRACTOR is unsatisfactory, or not as per 
the provision of the Contract, the COMPANY shall notify the CONTRACTOR in 
writing and specify in details the cause of dissatisfaction. The COMPANY shall 
have the option to terminate the Contract by giving 15 days notice in writing 
to the CONTRACTOR, if CONTRACTOR fails to comply with the requisitions 
contained in the said written notice issued by the COMPANY. In the event 
CONTRACTOR rectifies its non-performance to the satisfaction of the 
COMPANY, the option of termination may not be exercised by the COMPANY. 
If however CONTRACTOR repeats non-performance subsequently, COMPANY 
shall exercise the option to terminate contract by giving 07 days notice. Such 
CONTRACTOR shall be put on holiday as per the Banning Policy of OIL 
[available at www.oil-india.in]. 
 
44.6 Termination due to change of ownership and Assignment: In case the 
CONTRACTOR's rights and/or obligations under this Contract and/or the 
CONTRACTOR's rights, title and interest to the equipment/ material, are 
transferred or assigned without the COMPANY's written consent, the 
COMPANY may at its option, terminate this Contract. COMPANY shall not be 
however under any obligation to accord consent to the CONTRACTOR for 
change of ownership & assignment of the contract. 
 
44.7 If at any time during the term of this Contract, breakdown of CONTRACTOR's 
equipment results in CONTRACTORs being unable to perform their 
obligations hereunder for a period of 15 successive days, COMPANY at its 
option, may terminate this Contract in its entirely or partially to the extent 
non-performance, without any further right or obligation on the part of the 
COMPANY, except for the payment of money then due. No notice shall be 
served by the COMPANY under the condition stated above. 
 
44.8 Termination for delay in mobilization: CONTRACTOR is required to 
mobilize complete equipment alongwith crew for commencement of services at 
the specified site within the maximum allowed number of days from the date 
of LOA/Notice for Mobilization as specified in the special conditions of 
contract. If the CONTRACTOR (successful bidder) fails to complete the 
mobilization as above, OIL shall have, without prejudice to any other clause 
of the CONTRACT, the right to terminate the contract. 
 
44.9 Notwithstanding any provisions herein to the contrary, the Contract may be 
terminated at any time by the COMPANY on giving 30 (thirty) days written 
notice to the CONTRACTOR due to any other reason not covered under the 
above Article from 44.1 to 44.8 and in the event of such termination the 
COMPANY shall not be liable to pay any cost or damage to the CONTRACTOR 
except for payment of services as per the Contract upto the date of 
termination. 
 
44.10 Consequence of Termination: In all cases of termination herein set forth, 

--- PAGE 81 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 81 of 273 
 
the relative obligations of the parties to the Contract shall be limited to the 
period up to the date of termination. Notwithstanding the termination of this 
Contract, the parties shall continue to be bound by the provisions of this 
Contract that reasonably require some action or forbearance after such 
termination. 
 
 Upon termination of this Contract, CONTRACTOR shall return to COMPANY 
all of COMPANY's properties, which are at the time in CONTRACTOR's 
possession. 
 
 In the event of termination of contract, COMPANY will issue Notice of 
termination of the contract with date or event after which the contract will be 
terminated. The contract shall then stand terminated and the CONTRACTOR 
shall demobilize their personnel & materials. 
 
 Demobilization charges shall not be payable by COMPANY in case of Article 
from 44.4 to 44.7 
 
45.0 TO DETERMINE THE CONTRACT: 
 
 In such an event (i.e. termination under Article No. 44.4 to 44.9 above), the 
contract shall stand terminated and shall cease to be in force from the date of 
such notification by the COMPANY. Thereafter the CONTRACTOR shall stop 
forthwith any of the work then in progress, except those work which the 
COMPANY may, in writing, require to be done to safeguard any property or 
work, or installations from damages, and the COMPANY may take over the 
remaining unfinished work of the CONTRACTOR and complete the same 
through a fresh CONTRACTOR or by other means, at the risk and cost of the 
CONTRACTOR, and any of its sureties if any, shall be liable to the COMPANY 
for any excess cost occasioned by such work having to be so taken over and 
completed by the COMPANY over and above the cost at the rate/cost 
specified in the schedule of quantities and rates/prices. 
 
46.0 WITHOUT DETERMINING THE CONTRACT: In such an event (i.e. 
termination under Article No. 44.4 to 44.9 above), the COMPANY may take 
over the work of the CONTRACTOR or any part thereof and complete the 
same through a fresh CONTRACTOR or by other means, at the risk and cost 
of the CONTRACTOR. The CONTRACTOR and any of its sureties are liable to 
the COMPANY for any excess cost over and above the cost at the rates 
specified in the schedule of quantities and rates/prices, occasioned by such 
work having been taken over and completed by the COMPANY. 
 
47.0 ERRING/DEFAULTING AGENCIES: 
 
 Erring and defaulting agencies like bidder, CONTRACTOR, supplier, vendor, 
service provider will be dealt as per OIL’s Banning Policy dated 6th January, 
2017 available in OIL’s website: www.oil- india.com. Moreover, OIL reserves 
the right to take legal or any other action on the basis of merit of the case. 
 
 

--- PAGE 82 ---
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 82 of 273 
 
48.0 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS: 
 
 CONTRACTOR shall give notices and pay all fees at their own cost required to 
be given or paid by any National or State Statute, Ordinance, or other Law or 
any regulation, or bye-law of any local or other duly constituted authority as 
may be in force from time to time in India, in relation to the performance of 
the services and by the rules & regulations of all public bodies and companies 
whose property or rights are affected or may be affected in any way by the 
services. 
 CONTRACTOR shall conform in all respects with the provisions of any 
Statute, Ordinance of Law as aforesaid and the regulations or bye-law of any 
local or other duly constituted authority which may be applicable to the 
services and with such rules and regulation, public bodies and Companies as 
aforesaid and shall keep COMPANY indemnified against all penalties and 
liability of every kind for breach of any such Statute, Ordinance or Law, 
regulation or bye-law. 
 During the tenure of the Contract, CONTRACTOR shall keep the site where 
the services are being performed reasonably free from all unnecessary 
obstruction and shall store or dispose of any equipment and surplus 
materials and clear away and remove from the site any wreckage, rubbish or 
temporary works no longer required. On the completion of the services, 
CONTRACTOR shall clear away and remove from the site any surplus 
materials; rubbish or temporary works of every kind and leave the whole of 
the site clean and in workmanlike condition to the satisfaction of the 
COMPANY. 
 Key personnel cannot be changed during the tenure of the Contract except 
due to sickness/death/resignation of the personnel or any other justified 
situation in which case the replaced person should have equal experience and 
qualification, which will be again subject to prior approval, by the COMPANY.
 

--- PAGE 83 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22  
 
PART II 
 
SCHEDULE OF WORK, UNIT AND QUANTITY (SOQ) 
Page 83 of 273 
 
DESCRIPTION OF WORK/SERVICE: IFB No. CDH7317P22 for 
‘Implementation of initiative-HSSE Incident Reporting and Tracking 
Application for four (04) years and six (06) months and extendable by 
one (01) year under the Digitization Project (DRIVE). 
 
SOLUTION IMPLEMENTATION AND 6 MONTHS WARRANTY POST GO-LIVE 
 
ANNUAL SAAS CHARGES, MAINTENANCE & SERVICE SUPPORT COST 
 
Item 
No. Description of Services UOM Estimated 
Quantity 
10 Software License for Year 2 
(including Cloud Infrastructure) 
 
Number of Users 
   1000 
20 Software License for Year 3 
(including Cloud Infrastructure) 
 
Number of Users 
   1000 
Item 
No. Description of Services UOM Estimated 
Quantity 
10 
Implementation of Solution 
including change and project 
management inclusive of 6 months 
of software licenses cost for 1000 
users and associated cloud 
infrastructure with solution 
warranty. 
Lump-Sum 
 
1 
20 
Software license for (including 
cloud infrastructure) for 1000 
users and solution warranty for 6 
months applicable after solution 
Go-Live  
 
   Lump-Sum 1 
30 
Additional One-time software 
licenses / connectors for SAP 
(including supply, installation. 
configuration etc.) 
 
   Lump-Sum 1 

--- PAGE 84 ---
  
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 84 of 273 
30 Software License for Year 4 
(including Cloud Infrastructure) 
 
Number of Users 
   1000 
40 Hourly Support Services Rate 
for post deployment solution 
Maintenance / Developments 
(applicable after end of solution 
warranty) 
 
        Hours     2000 
50 Online Training Sessions 
 
        Hours      240 
1. Tenure of Agreement: 4.5 years and extendable by one (01) year from the 
commencement of the service i.e. after completion of mobilization  
2. Mobilisation Period: 15 (fifteen) days from the date of issue of Work Order. 
Mobilization shall be considered as completed once a kick-off meeting is 
done between OIL and the Successful Bidder. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 85 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 85 of 273 
 
PART-III 
 
SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT (SCC) 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
1.1 Purpose of Document 
The purpose of this document is to describe the functional & technical 
specifications for the S&E Portal solution. 
1.2 Background & Context 
Oil India Limited (OIL) is a premier Indian National Oil Company engaged in 
the business of exploration, production and transportation of crude oil and 
natural gas, and production of LPG. The company's history spans the 
discovery of crude oil in the far east of India at Digboi, Assam in 1889 to its 
present status as a fully integrated upstream petroleum company. 
OIL has a long history of exploration and production of hydrocarbons in the 
fold- belts of Upper Assam and Arunachal Pradesh. Now its exploration 
efforts are not limited to India but have crossed its borders to have global 
footprint as well. At present OIL has in- country Field Headquarters at 
Duliajan Assam, Pipeline Headquarters at Guwahati, Assam, Project offices 
at Jodhpur (Rajasthan) and Kakinada (Andhra Pradesh), Shipping office at 
Kolkata (West Bengal), E&D Directorate, Delhi and Corporate office at 
Noida. 
The Safety & Environment Department is the ‘Nodal Department’ of OIL, 
entrusted with responsibilities for improvement in HSE Management 
system in the entire operational activities of Oil India Limited. Proactive 
approach has been taken in addressing HSE related issues for effective 
implementation of OIL’s HSE policy and guidelines. S&E department’s aim 
is to achieve world-class excellence in Safety, Occupational health and 
Environment in the most sustainable approach with state-of-the-art 
technologies. The S&E Department has contributed significantly to the 
OIL’s overall performance in enhancing the safety standards, improving loss 
prevention, monitoring and promoting environment protection, pollution 
control measures, fire control & protection measures and monitoring of 
occupational health services and to achieve the lowest rate of LTIF. The 
S&E Department comprises of three sections: 
 Safety 
 Environment 
 Fire Service 
 
OIL has embarked on Project DRIVE (Digital Readiness for Innovation and 
Value in E&P) to leverage the recent advances in digital technologies and 
advanced analytics to improve efficiency, increase safety, reduce wastages, 

--- PAGE 86 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 86 of 273 
 
increase customer value, achieve effective decision making and to address 
the challenges posed by ever changing business requirements. 
1.3 Solution Description & Business Context 
The purpose of the portal is to enable a proactive Safety Culture by 
gathering Safety and Environment data from All Business units and 
locations within an organization. 
The expected business benefits are: 
 Create an organized and centralized compliance effort by helping OIL 
to keep all compliance standards and regulations in one place to stay 
on top of safety, and environmental performance. 
 Safer employees and a cleaner environment by making it easier to 
track and improve safety performance leading to healthier, happier, 
more productive employees and also make OIL more environmentally 
friendly leading to more value for OIL on account of fewer fines and 
settlements. 
 Improved incident management by helping OIL to respond quickly 
and thoroughly and to prevent similar incidents in the future through 
record keeping and information sharing. 
The S&E Portal is intended to enhance operations by providing a 
digitally integrated platform that helps to digitize the data collection 
process, streamline workflow and provides rapid insights on S&E 
performance. It shall also serve the following functions: 
 Provide a live dashboard 
 Analyze gathered data in the portal 
 Generate reports and insights for S&E stakeholders 
 Send notifications on select item reminders / status updation 
 Analyze and benchmark various locations & Business Units based 
on Safety Performance Metrics. 
    Scope of this solution will encompass entire organization of OIL. 
    The bidder will be responsible for:  
 Providing Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) hosted on public cloud-
based server and system integration 
 Transfer of data from and to deployed software solution to SAP 
 Development of point solutions to suffice the requirements 
mentioned in the scope 
 Training of employees and other on the developed solution 
 

--- PAGE 87 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 87 of 273 
 
2. SOLUTION SPECIFICATIONS 
 
2.1 Functional Requirement  
SL. 
NO. 
MINIMUM FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENT 
A. DASHBOARD, MIS REPORTING & ANALYTICS 
1.  The S&E portal is intended to be a single point of reference for all 
S&E role holders to input, read data and view reports. Portal 
should be appropriately sectioned into Corporate S&E and various 
Business Units (Production Installations, Drilling, Workover, 
Mines etc.) with each business unit having access to all the 
modules mentioned in functional requirements. 
2.  S&E Dashboard which shall contain the following Key 
Performance Parameters collectively and individually for business. 
a .  Accident free manhours of Organization 
b .  Scroll message 
c .  Safety events 
d .  Key indices of safety measurement 
• Fatalities 
• Major Incidents 
• Minor Incidents 
• Near Misses  
e .  Safety alerts 
f . Safety Leaderboard  
3.  Reports and Trends for user assigned tasks: 
 Responsible User task report 
 Department Wise task report 
 Category wise task report 
 Overdue task report 
4.  User should be taken to associated BU dashboard when logged in. 
5.  Content shown is to be based on the role of the 
user/location/region/ HQ of that BU. 
6.  In addition to details and KPI’s mentioned above, the Dashboard, 
MIS Reporting & Analytics should broadly comply with guidelines 
listed in the IOGP (International Association of OIL & Gas 
Producers) Report 456 - Recommended practice on Key Performance 
Indicators. 

--- PAGE 88 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 88 of 273 
 
SL. 
NO. 
MINIMUM FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENT 
B. AUDIT MANAGEMENT 
7.  INTERNAL SAFETY AUDIT  
 Generate audit plans and assign internal auditors for 
o Pre-Spud Audit (see Appendix 2) 
o Pre-Workover Audit (see Appendix 3) 
o Multidisciplinary Safety Audit 
o Surprise Safety Inspection 
o Fire Safety Audit 
o Environmental Audit (see Appendix 4) 
 Notify relevant parties on status of audits and compliances.  
 Track compliance of individual audit points. 
o Audit Points can be assigned to users directly 
o Users can resolve/close Audit Points. 
o Audit Points flow back to the Audit module to keep 
the assigner informed of closures. 
o Follow up reminders to ensure all tasks are comply to 
deadline along with escalation to supervisor. 
o Rule based escalation mechanism include role-based 
email alerts/reminders. 
o Option for administrator or senior S&E Managers to 
re-open incorrectly closed audit observation with 
notification to supervisor and delay calculated basis 
original audit point assignment date. 
 Generate comprehensive reports and graphs of audits 
organization-wide. 
8.  EXTERNAL SAFETY AUDIT 
 Upload external safety-audit findings via an excel file: 
 DGMS (refer Appendix 5) 
 OISD (refer Appendix 6) 
 MoEFCC 
 Notify relevant parties on status of audits and compliances.  
 Track compliance of individual audit points. 
 Audit Points can be assigned to users directly. 
 Users can resolve/close Audit Points. 
 Audit Points flow back to the Audit module to keep the 
assigner informed of closures. 
 Follow up reminders to ensure all tasks comply to deadline 
along with escalation to supervisor. 
 Rule based escalation mechanism include role-based email 
alerts/reminders. 
 Option for administrator or senior S&E Managers to re-open 
incorrectly closed audit observation with notification to 
supervisor and delay calculated basis original audit point 
assignment date. 

--- PAGE 89 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 89 of 273 
 
SL. 
NO. 
MINIMUM FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENT 
 Generate comprehensive reports and graphs of audits. 
C. INCIDENT MANAGEMENT & REPORTING 
9.   Record comprehensive incident details.  
10.   Upload documents and photos of incidents. 
11.   Generate and track Corrective and Preventive Actions 
(CAPAs) 
 CAPAs can be assigned to users directly. 
 Users can resolve/close CAPAs.  
 CAPAs flow back to keep the CAPA raiser informed of 
closures. 
 Follow up reminders to ensure all tasks comply to deadline 
along with escalation to supervisor. 
 Rule based escalation mechanism. 
 Role based email alerts/reminders. 
 Option for administrator or senior S&E Managers to re-open 
incorrectly closed CAPA with notification to supervisor and 
delay calculated basis original CAPA assignment date. 
12.   Comprehensive analytics of incidents. 
13.   Track status of incident closures. 
14.   This data entry form shall contain the following types of 
fields: 
 Events involving release of containment of hazardous 
materials. 
 Process Details Involved - Date, Time, Location, 
Department. 
 Uncontrolled Release - Material Involved, quantity released, 
duration of release. 
 Injury Details - Type of injury, injury party details 
 Explosion/Fire/Loss - Fire duration, explosion, loss, 
evacuation, shutdown. 
 Incident Analysis - What happened, cause of incident, 
recommendations. 
 Additionally, it shall also contain all fields as highlighted in 
OIL’s ERP process (see Appendix 7), OISD FIR (see Appendix 8) 
and OMR Forms 4A, 4B, 4C (see Appendix 9) with a provision 
to add more inputs as required as per PNGRB guidelines, 
Chief Inspector of Factories, PESO etc. 
D. HAZARD, RISK ANALYSIS AND NEAR MISS REPORTING 
15.  Workflow for Hazard/Near Miss Identification, Assessment, 
determining existing controls, risk estimation and 
recommendations to reduce risks. (refer Appendix 10) 
16.  Identification of Hazards/Near Miss and People affected - 
Nature/Type of hazard/Near Miss, consequences and people 
affected. 

--- PAGE 90 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 90 of 273 
 
SL. 
NO. 
MINIMUM FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENT 
17.  Classification of Hazard/Near Miss by following Causes: 
 Unsafe Act 
 Unsafe working condition 
 Failure of Equipment 
 Lack of Knowledge 
 Nonuse of PPE 
 Lack of Training 
 Lack of supervision 
 Lack of Coordination 
 Environmental Factor 
 Etc. 
18.  Classification of Hazard/Near Miss by following Agencies: 
 Machinery 
 Hand Tools 
 Electrical Work 
 Work at Height 
 Material Handling 
o Manual 
o Mechanical 
 Etc. 
19.  Each of Hazard/Near Miss Observation shall allow for capture of 
the following details:  
 Date 
 Time 
 Zone 
 People 
 Area of observation 
 Etc. 
20.  Award Assessment for Near Misses 
 Scoring/award templates provided by S&E department for 
all submitted Near Misses. 
 Scoring entry, calculation, ranking and approval 
mechanism for selection of Top 3 Near Misses on a 
Quarterly Basis. 
21.  Generate and assign CAPAs based on Hazard Observation. 
CAPAs can be assigned to users directly. 
Users can resolve/close CAPAs.  
CAPAs flow back to keep the CAPA raiser informed of closures. 
Follow up reminders to ensure all tasks comply to deadline along 
with escalation to supervisor. 
Rule based escalation mechanism. 

--- PAGE 91 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 91 of 273 
 
SL. 
NO. 
MINIMUM FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENT 
Role based email alerts/reminders. 
Option for administrator or senior S&E Managers to re-open 
incorrectly closed CAPA with notification to supervisor and delay 
calculated basis original CAPA assignment date. 
22.  JSA (Job Safety Analysis): (refer Appendix 11) 
 Form to record Job Safety Analysis containing fields for 
Date, Unique JSA Identification Number, Nature of Job, BU 
and personnel involved (employees, third party etc.) 
 Field to enter sequence of job steps. 
 Fields to enter Qualitative and Quantitative Assessment for 
each job step- Type of activity, Hazards, Conditions, 
Concerns and Control. 
 Drop-Down Provision for Controls - eg: PPE (Helmet, Safety 
Shoes, Safety Goggles, Hand Gloves, Safety Belt, Ear-muffs 
etc.), Elimination, Substitution/Reduction, Engg. Controls, 
Administrative Controls and Others. 
 Residual Risk Assessment (If applicable) - Severity, 
Likelihood and risk rating for residual risk after controls. 
 Provision to add Team Members (along with name, employee 
code, designation, BUs etc.) involved in making the JSA. 
 Provision to print, sign and upload forms or supporting 
materials. 
E. SAFETY EQUIPMENT MANAGEMENT 
23.  Fire Fighting Equipment (Breathing Apparatus Sets, Fire 
Extinguishers etc.): (refer Appendix 12) 
Master list of Equipment (by different locations, categories, size, 
BUs, testing dates, refill dates etc.) to be uploaded on portal. 
Checklist for all fire-fighting equipment. 
Rules for Reminders and Alerts to track refilling, retesting, 
replacement, maintenance etc.) 
Analytics and Reports. 
24.  PPE (Personal Protective Equipment): 
Form and workflow for different BUs to send scheduled PPE 
request for all their employees with data fields for employee 
gender, equipment type, size, periodicity of replacement etc.). 
Form and workflow for different BUs to send unscheduled PPE 
request for all their employees with data fields for employee 
gender, equipment type, size, periodicity of replacement etc.). 
(refer Appendix 13) 
Field to track PPE issuance to employees. 
Analytics and Reports. 
F. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH 
25.  Pull employee heath checkup status and age data from OIL ERP. 
26.  Rules to trigger notifications and alerts when health-checkups are 
due based on age of the user. 

--- PAGE 92 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 92 of 273 
 
SL. 
NO. 
MINIMUM FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENT 
G. MEETINGS MANAGEMENT 
27.  The meeting module is supposed to act as a one stop shop for 
following safety related meetings: 
 Pit level Safety Meeting (refer Appendix 14) 
 Mines Safety Meeting 
 Departmental Safety Meetings (refer Appendix 15) 
 Field Level Safety Council Meeting 
 Board (Apex) Level Safety Meeting 
 OISD Compliance Status Appraisal 
 Siting Committee Meeting 
28.  The portal shall help with the following with regards to each 
meeting: 
 Create agendas for meetings (refer Appendix 16, 17) 
 Schedule meetings 
 Invite users 
 Add Minutes of Meetings 
 Generate CAPAs 
 Track attendance 
H. ENVIRONMENT & POLLUTION CONTROL 
29.  Monthly Environmental Reports: 
Online form to input environmental data containing the following 
fields: (refer Appendix 18) 
 Environment Parameter Monitoring: 
o DG stack monitoring 
o Ambient monitoring 
o Noise monitoring 
o Formation water testing 
o Ground water testing 
 Raw Water & Effluent Generation Details: 
o Cooling 
o Domestic 
o Operation 
o Formation water 
 Hazardous waste generation & disposal details: (refer 
Appendices 19, 20, 21)  
o Select Waste codes and quantity of was generated as 
per schedule list: 
 Used Oil/Gear Oil 
 Oily Sludge 
 Oil filters 
 Oil used cotton & cloths 
 Empty Container/Barrels 
 Used Resins from Filters (Water Softner, Iron 

--- PAGE 93 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 93 of 273 
 
SL. 
NO. 
MINIMUM FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENT 
removal filter) 
 E-Waste 
 Others 
o Select disposal/recycling methods 
o Maintain Manifest of waste and related 
forms/documentation 
30.  Pollution Complaints: 
 Record Complaints in system and categorization as per 
following filters: 
o Gas leakage 
o Gas Flaring 
o Leakage of effluent water 
o Noise disturbance 
o Sodium vapor light effect 
o Spillage/leakage of crude oil 
o Water logging problem 
o Formation/oil water spillage due to flood 
o Animals injury/death 
o Crop Damage 
o Fire incident 
o Honorarium 
o Others 
 
 Generate and assign CAPAs. 
 
o CAPAs can be assigned to users directly. 
o Users can resolve/close CAPAs.  
o CAPAs flow back to keep the CAPA raiser informed of 
closures. 
o Follow up reminders to ensure all tasks comply to 
deadline along with escalation to supervisor. 
o Rule based escalation mechanism. 
o Role based email alerts/reminders. 
o Option for administrator or senior S&E Managers to 
re-open incorrectly closed CAPA with notification to 
supervisor and delay calculated basis original CAPA 
assignment date. 
 Closure of complaints with field to upload supporting 
documents, images and record compensations 
 Analytics and Reports 
o Total pollution complaints received by type, year and 
location 
o Total pollution complaints resolved 
o Total Pollution complaints pending 

--- PAGE 94 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 94 of 273 
 
SL. 
NO. 
MINIMUM FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENT 
31.  Open, track and update status of special Environmental 
Studies/Projects being carried out by different BUs: 
 Biodiversity Study  
 Subsidence Study 
 Tree Plantation Drives 
 Others 
I. SAFETY ASSURANCE CHECKLIST 
32.  Categorize and add checklists. 
33.  Users answer the S&E Assurance Checklists. 
34.  Generate reports of the checklist responses. 
J. DOCUMENT, CONTENT AND USER MANAGEMENT 
35.  DRAWINGS 
 Upload categorized layouts/drawings 
 Maintain versions  
36.  CERTIFICATIONS 
 Upload categorized certifications 
 Maintain versions 
 Track expiry/renewal  
 
K. INFRASTRUCTURE DATA 
Upload and maintain infrastructure data within locations  
37.  SOPs 
 Upload SOP documents 
 Users can read SOP documents and certify that they have 
read them 
 Track and report on which SOP’s have been read by whom  
38.  MAN HOURS 
 Upload daily man hours sheet for various 
employee/contractor types 
 Track overtime, double shift man hours etc. 
 Generate reports and analytics of man hours split by 
gender/contractors/ permanent employees etc. 
39.  USER MANAGEMENT 
 Add/Edit/Deactivate Users 
 Attach Roles to users 
 Auto-migrate open CAPAs of user to peers when user is 
transferred to another location 
L. EMPLOYEE SURVEYS AND SUGGESTIONS 
40.  S&E SUGGESTIONS 
 Users can provide S&E Suggestions 

--- PAGE 95 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 95 of 273 
 
SL. 
NO. 
MINIMUM FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENT 
 Admins/S&E users can assign CAPAs for approved 
suggestions 
 Generate reports and analytics of S&E Suggestions 
41.  S&E SURVEYS 
 Upload survey questionnaires 
 Users respond to surveys 
 Generate reports and analytics of S&E Surveys 
M. LICENSE TO OPERATE 
42.  Planning and S&E department define the overall Legislations, 
Provisions, Licenses and evaluation period for different plants, 
locations of entire organization: 
 E&P Operations 
 Pipeline 
 LPG 
43.  Locations and BUs pick the applicable Legislations and Provisions 
from the defined list. On an annual/bi-annual basis, the locations 
maintain a register of all Legislation, Provision, License 
compliance: 
 PESO 
 DGMS 
 OISD 
 MoEFCC 
 MoPNRG 
 CIF 
 Local and State Governments 
44.  An indicative list of rules and acts which OIL needs to comply with 
are listed as follows: 
 Environment Rules & Acts: 
o The Water (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act 
o The Air (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act 
o The Environment (Protection) Act and Rules 
o Hazardous Wastes (Management & Handling Rules) 
o Manufacturing, Storage & Import of Hazardous 
Chemical Rules 
 Ambient Noise Standards Rules & Acts: 
o Public Liability Insurance Act 
o National Ambient Air Quality Standards 
o Oil Drilling & Gas Extraction Industry Standards 
 Safety Rules & Acts 
o Oil Mines Regulations 
o Mines Act 
o Indian Electricity Rules 
o Petroleum Rules 
o Explosive Rules 

--- PAGE 96 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 96 of 273 
 
SL. 
NO. 
MINIMUM FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENT 
o Factory Act 
45.  Reports and Analytics to be provided on Legislation and Provision 
level across all the locations and all BUs of the organization 
46.  Management by Exception (via Alerts/Reminders) to upload 
categorized licenses, maintain versions and track expiry/renewal 
47.  Generate and assign scheduled tasks and reminders (quarterly, 
semi-annually) associated with reporting and compliance tracking 
for statutory bodies (eg: PESO). 
a. Tasks can be assigned to users directly. 
b. Users can resolve/close tasks along with upload of 
supporting evidence. 
c. Resolution status flow back to keep the task raiser informed 
of closures. 
d. Follow up reminders to ensure all tasks are complied by 
deadline along with escalation to supervisor. 
e. Rule based escalation mechanism. 
f. Role based email alerts/reminders. 
g. Option for administrator or senior S&E Managers to re-open 
incorrectly closed tasks with notification to supervisor and 
delay calculated basis original CAPA assignment date. 
N. KNOWLEDGE DISSIMENATION 
48.  Upload and distribute videos/PDFs of leadership talks. 
49.  Upload S&E advisories & directives to distribute to the team. 
50.  Upload newsletters to distribute to the team. 
51.  Upload Safety related incidents and guides to distribute to the 
team. 
52.  Broadcast urgent safety messages to all users of the portal. 
53.  Upload E-Learning content/ videos/ documents to distribute to 
the team. 
54.  Upload corporate videos to distribute to the team. 
55.  Upload Business Manuals to distribute to teams within a Business 
Unit. 
56.  Upload Corporate Manuals to distribute to all users. 
O. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 
57.  EVENTS 
 Locations can participate in events and post pictures of the 
event.  
 Events are visible to all users on the portal.  
58.   QUIZ 
 Question bank for quizzes is maintained.  
 Quizzes can be generated from the question bank, timers 
and time period of the quiz can be set.  
 Generate analytics and reports of quizzes taken by users. 

--- PAGE 97 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 97 of 273 
 
SL. 
NO. 
MINIMUM FUNCTIONAL REQUIREMENT 
59.  COMPETITIONS 
Create competitions and nominate winners from the competition 
entries. 
60.  LEADERBOARD 
Leaderboard based on points awarded to users for browsing, 
reading, participating in events/activities, quiz score, contributing 
articles etc. 
P. TICKETING SUPPORT 
61.   Built-In Ticketing Module - Users should be able to raise tickets 
within the customer support module in the portal. Screenshots of 
issues can be provided. 
62.   Ticket Tracking - Status of tickets can be tracked organization-
wide 
63.  User Guides - Each module should have a built-in user guide to 
help users navigate through workflows 
 Bidder shall deliver readily built and mature off-the-shelf 
solution/software with built in best practices from Oil & Gas industry. 
Bidder shall provide suggestion, execute configuration and 
customization for the proposed solution to meet OIL’s operational and 
business process requirement. 
 The bidder must also conduct trainings on the features, user 
interface and process flow of the developed solution. The training 
needs to be carried out in person at respective locations for the 
operators and supervisors. Details of the training requirement are 
mentioned under the section of key steps of implementation. 
 
2.2 Technical Requirements 
SN Details 
A.  CLOUD INFRASTRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS 
1.  Bidder should propose a SaaS based solution that is ready to 
be deployed on public cloud in India. As per the MEITY 
guidelines, proposed CSP (Cloud Service Provider) should be 
from the selected empaneled major cloud service providers by 
MEITY (Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology) 
2.  Bidder to adhere to the guidelines detailed by Government of 
India (available at https://meity.gov.in/content/gi-cloud-
meghraj) for selecting a cloud service provider and SI partner 
for OIL India 
3.  Bidder will be responsible to provide and maintain cloud 
services, in partnership with selected cloud service provider 
(CSP) over the duration of the contract. 
4.  Bidder shall be responsible for ensuring that all data functions 
and processing are performed within the boundaries of India. 

--- PAGE 98 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 98 of 273 
 
SN Details 
5.  Bidder will be responsible to setup, configure, data integration 
with OIL software/hardware, regular performance checks and 
maintenance of cloud service provider (CSP) server hardware, 
software and services. 
6.  Cloud services under SaaS model shall only be offered from 
Data Centers audited and qualified by STQC under the Cloud 
Services Empanelment process. 
7.  Bidder shall be responsible to ensure that the services offered 
from SaaS provide a mechanism to authenticate and authorize 
users. 
8.  Bidder to ensure that SaaS solution / services offered to OIL 
shall have in-built functionality to integrate with existing 
authentication mechanisms like Active-Directory. 
9.  Bidder provided SaaS solution shall be able to segregate users 
on basis of privileges granted to the users 
10.  Bidder along with CSPs shall provision and implement role-
based authentication when required and separation of 
identities shall be maintained in multi-tenant environment 
11.  Bidder along with CSPs shall ensure that all the policies and 
procedures shall be established and maintained in support of 
data security to include confidentiality, integrity, and 
availability across various system interfaces and business 
functions to prevent any improper disclosure, alternation, or 
destruction. 
12.  Bidder shall ensure that OIL is provided with capability to 
generate custom reports around several parameters such as 
users, time, data, etc. 
13.  Bidder shall be responsible to provide a mechanism to enable 
each OIL’s administrator to create, manage and delete user 
accounts for that tenant in the user account directory 
14.  Bidder to ensure that proposed SaaS solution are available 
with automatic scale up (adding more resources to handle 
demand) and scale out (adding more systems to handle 
demand) to meet OIL’s performance requirements. 
15.  Bidder to ensure that the SaaS solution proposed complies 
with PII data security standards like ISO 27018. 
16.  Bidder to ensure that proposed SaaS solution is enabled with 
data loss prevention tools and capability to monitor data flow. 
17.  Bidder to ensure that services offered under SaaS solution 
provide tools / capability for encryption of data-at-rest, data-
in-processing and data-in-transit 
18.  Bidder shall ensure that proposed SaaS solution support 
encryption algorithms like AES256 and higher. 

--- PAGE 99 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 99 of 273 
 
SN Details 
 NETWORKING & SECURITY 
19.  Solution shall support complete end-to-end data encryption 
across web application and mobile application. Solution should 
support encrypted communication using SSL. Any certification 
installations required with other related activities are to be 
installed by the bidder. 
20.  Solution shall support encrypted storage pattern. The 
Encrypted Storage pattern should provide second line of 
defense against the theft of data on system servers. 
21.  Solution shall support SSL, HTTPS and session timeouts. It 
should have Single-Sign-On (SSO) capability and the login 
credentials should be synced up with Active Directory 
22.  Bidder to ensure user should be able to access all the 
functionalities of proposed solution through OIL network and 
through secured network protocols on their mobile devices or 
handhelds. 
23.  Bidder to ensure when the user connects to the solution on 
cloud, the connection is established via a secured SSL (https) 
link. 
24.  Bidder needs to implement Multi-Factor Authentication 
Services with comprehensive application security. 
25.  Bidder to comply with OIL’s IT security policy to encompass all 
IT security related requirements. OIL is ISO:27001 certified and 
conforms to all norms for establishing, implementing, 
maintaining and continually improving on information security 
management. 
26.  Bidder to manage application, data and server security for the 
solution as per ISO 27001 standards. The solution should be 
free from the vulnerabilities defined in Open Web Application 
Security Project (OWASP) top 10 vulnerabilities and other 
known vulnerabilities. Solution shall capture full audit trails. 
27.  Bidder needs to ensure that the CSPs facilities/services are 
certified to be compliant to the following standards: 
ISO 27001 - Data Center and the cloud services should be 
certified for the latest version of the standards 
ISO 27017 - Code of practice for information security controls 
based on ISO/IEC 27002 for cloud services and Information 
technology 
ISO 27018 - Code of practice for protection of personally 
identifiable information (PII) in public clouds. 
ISO 20000-1 – NOC and SOC facility must be within India for 
the Cloud Environments and the managed services quality 
should be certified for ISO 20000:1 

--- PAGE 100 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 100 of 273 
 
SN Details 
28.  Bidder will be responsible for provisioning, installation, 
configuration, management, monitoring of security services as 
per the requirements of OIL. 
29.  Bidder will be responsible to maintain and manage access 
control with Network Security Group and identify any security 
configuration gaps. 
30.  Bidder will be responsible to conduct security / risk 
assessment, implementation of Multi-Factor Authentication 
Services and perform comprehensive application security 
checks. 
31.  Bidder needs to deploy security patches on hardware and 
software regularly and take regular backups of security 
configurations. 
32.  Solution should allow only authorized licensed users to login 
into the portal. Data security, user authorization and user 
access control need to be considered while designing the 
solution components. 
33.  Bidder will ensure that all network related configuration and 
setup required at both OIL and at CSP is complete in all 
respects. Network configuration required at OIL will be 
facilitated by OIL team and bidder will provide all necessary 
details related to firewall, routers, switches etc. All network 
related changes required at CSP end will be entirely bidder’s 
responsibility. 
34.  Bidder should ensure an uptime of 99% for the solution. 
Bidder should ensure that OIL users and other users of the 
solution should always be able to login, access and function 
smoothly all necessary tasks within the product. 
35.  Bidder to ensure the data during transit is secured and users 
can access the portal without any connectivity issues. 
36.  Bidder to ensure design specifications of the solution is such 
that there is minimum latency in the update of data/ refresh of 
dashboards, files, integration touch points with other systems.  
37.  Bidder will ensure that all the policies and procedures shall be 
established and maintained in support of data security to 
include confidentiality, integrity and availability across various 
system interfaces and business functions to prevent any 
improper disclosure, alternation, or destruction. 
38.  Bidder will conduct Security / Risk Assessment audits at 
regular intervals (6 months) and submit the report to OIL 
39.  Bidder will be responsible to implement, manage and monitor 
DDoS, IPS, IDS technology and solutions to ensure the security 
of Cloud Services procured.  
40.  Bidder will be responsible to deploy public facing services in a 
zone (DMZ) different from the application services. The 
Database nodes (RDBMS) should be in a separate zone with 
higher security layer. Deploy security patches on hardware and 

--- PAGE 101 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 101 of 273 
 
SN Details 
software and take regular backups of security configurations. 
B.  INTEGRATION 
41.  Solution shall enable connecting to SAP ERP and provide 
required SAP/.Net/Other software connectors for the 
integration between source systems and the proposed 
solution to ensure seamless interconnectivity.  
42.  The solution shall be able to integrate with applications 
detailed in the Architecture using all suitable protocol - REST, 
FTP/SFTP, SOAP, MQ, JMS, HTTPS, Batch, and TCP/IP etc. 
43.  Bidder shall enable and have complete ownership of SAP 
integration with application/database server. Bidder would 
also be responsible to provision any software license / 
connector and hardware required for SAP integration. Any 
changes/modifications required in SAP Web Services is to be 
managed by the bidder. ABAP license and login requirements 
will be facilitated by OIL. 
44.  Bidder will be responsible for development of any SAP(ABAP) 
programs, if required, for integration with SAP modules (ECC, 
BW etc.). 
45.  Bidder to ensure that the installation manager can access all 
collated data on his portal using his credentials. IM should 
also be able to access the application portal on his laptop 
through browser via secured protocol using SSL encryption 
46.  Bidder will manage the integration with OIL servers for email 
to be sent to required personnel in case of alerts and 
notifications. 
47.  Solution to support encrypted communication using SSL and 
certification installation (SAP/ Application server) with other 
activities are to be installed by the bidder 
48.  Solution shall support Authenticated Session security pattern 
for giving better end-user experience in other locations. 
49.  Solution should allow only authorized users to login into the 
application portal. An unauthorized user should not be 
allowed to login into the system. Data security, user 
authorization and user access control need to be considered 
while designing the solution components 

--- PAGE 102 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 102 of 273 
 
SN Details 
C.  USABILITY REQUIREMENTS 
50.  System shall have the functionality to let the user print pre-
defined reports, ad hoc reports and export reports to office 
applications without losing any formatting. 
51.  System shall have the ability to support web-based mobile 
access for dashboards and notifications. 
52.  Bidder to provide hardware and software specifications 
assuming a minimum user base of 1000 users. User 
concurrency to be assumed at minimum 100 users. However, 
actual number of users will be communicated by OIL while 
renewing the annual SaaS licenses.  
53.  Solution should be designed with consideration to the future 
requirement of user base increase to approximately 1500 
users. User concurrency to be assumed at minimum 150 
users.  Bidder will be responsible to scale up the hardware and 
software as per requirement of the client as per the terms 
mentioned under special conditions of contract (SCC Section 5)  
54.  Bidder to ensure that S&E web portal interface should be 
adaptable to mobile device browsers.  
55.  Bidder to ensure user interface has responsive design 
principles to automatically change positioning of page elements 
based on screen size and orientation. 
56.  Bidder to ensure email alerts and notifications required to be 
sent from the portal should originate from the email account of 
the domain name.  
57.  Bidder to ensure web portal should be built on a component 
based, layered-architecture. 
58.  The portal shall have the following features: 
 Fast loading pages, consistent layout, and descriptive 
link text. 
 Upload of multimedia content. 
 Upload / Download provision of data/image in excel, pdf, 
png, jpg etc. 
 Easy drag and drop to manage portal content. 
D.  OTHER TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS 
59.  Bidder to ensure requirements are fulfilled by providing 
required infrastructure on cloud, application connectivity, data 
security (including interfacing with tools, encryption of data 

--- PAGE 103 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 103 of 273 
 
SN Details 
being sent across network as required per the standards) and 
adhere to all statutory security guidelines of Govt. of India  
60.  Bidder to also ensure system complies with all regulatory / 
security requirements that may arise due to OIL policy updates 
or changes in Govt. Of India regulations 
61.  Solution shall log adequate metrics at application level (e.g.: 
Application Threading, Concurrent Users, Page Response 
Times, etc.) to support service levels and troubleshooting 
remediation recommendations 
62.   System shall have ability to automatically capture and log all 
errors, app failures etc. occurring in the application/portal. 
The error/defect report is to be made available in the system as 
part of the deliverable.  
63.   System shall have the facility for taking backup of all data 
whenever required. The frequency of data back-up will be 
decided by bidder in consultation with OIL team. The recovery 
of backup and restoration of the software in case of any failure 
or a required recovery procedure is responsibility of the bidder 
64.  In case of system/application/ capability failure, the solution 
shall support failure management, event management 
including monitoring, detecting and automatically notifying 
service area/support contacts of the failures, etc. Solution 
shall allow for configuring system failure actions and responses 
E.  EXIT MANAGEMENT / TRANSITION OUT PHASE 
65.  Bidder will be responsible to migrate the VMs, data etc., and 
should ensure decommissioning of data from the existing VMs. 
Bidder needs to ensure migration of the VMs, data, content 
and any other assets to the new environment (on-premise or 
private cloud) or on alternate CSP‘s offerings and ensuring 
successful deployment and running of the OIL‘s solution on the 
new infrastructure (on-premise or private cloud) by suitably 
retrieving all data, scripts, software, virtual machine images, 
and so forth to enable mirroring or copying to OIL supplied 
industry standard media.  
66.  The ownership of the data generated upon usage of the system, 
at any point of time during the contract or expiry or 
termination of the contract, shall rest absolutely with OIL.  
67.  Bidder shall provide the exit plan from the cloud service 
provider ensuring minimum impact to the deployed solution 
along with the solution blueprint. 
68.  Bidder needs to provide a comprehensive exit management 

--- PAGE 104 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 104 of 273 
 
SN Details 
plan and ensure that all the documentation required for 
smooth transition including configuration documents are kept 
up to date and is handed over to the OIL during regular 
intervals over contract duration as well as during the exit 
management process.  
69.  Bidder needs to address and rectify the problems with respect 
to migration of the OIL’s application and related IT 
infrastructure during the transition  
70.  Bidder needs to train and transfer the knowledge to OIL and 
ensure similar continuity and performance of the services post 
expiry of the contract.  
2.3 Solution Reference Architecture (Indicative) 
 
 
 
3. WARRANTY & ANNUAL MAINTENANCE – TERMS & CONDITIONS  
 
The selected bidder shall deploy resources for operations and maintenance 
to carry out regular ongoing work related to upgrades, updates, bug fixing 
and enhancements etc. The O&M shall be carried out by the selected bidder 
after Go-LIVE. 
 MAINTAINABILITY REQUIREMENTS 
1.  Bidder to provide warranty for period of 6-months and post go-live 
support after successful solution implementation & Go-Live.  
Bidder must quote lumpsum SaaS charges (inclusive of cloud 
infrastructure) for first 6 (six) months of solution usage after 
solution Go-Live and applicable solution warranty under line item 
20 of the Price Bid. 


--- PAGE 105 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 105 of 273 
 
2.  Bidder will be responsible to provide full solution support to OIL 
users during the warranty period. Bidder will also own and resolve 
solution defects arising during the warranty period. The resolution 
of such service requests and defects must strictly meet the SLAs 
defined under Section 4.  
3.  The AMC (Annual Maintenance Contract) period will be of 3 years 
(further extendable by 1 year) and will begin after the expiry of 6 
Months warranty period.  
4.  First date for the operation of hourly maintenance contract will 
start only after successful completion of warranty.  
5.  Warranty charges and AMC charges (hourly rate card) will be 
considered for commercial evaluation and needs to be submitted in 
the format mentioned under schedule of rates section. 
6.  Payment against AMC charges will be paid on quarterly frequency 
prorated on the hours of services consumed by OIL in that quarter.  
7.  OIL stakeholders will raise tickets for support service requirements 
and the BIDDER must follow the SLAs defined in Section 4 to 
resolve the tickets. The hours of services rendered in ticket 
resolution must be mutually agreed between OIL and the Bidder. 
8.  Bidder must provide SLA monitoring tool, adherence dashboard to 
OIL for evaluation of different service level parameters. SLA 
adherence assessment should be validated by OIL and submitted 
along with the quarterly invoices for AMC charges.  
9.  BIDDER will also be responsible to proactively execute solution 
maintenance as defined in the following clauses.  
10.  Bidder must ensure solution software upgrades, updates, software 
enhancements are implemented at OIL during the maintenance 
period at no extra cost to OIL within two (2) weeks from the date of 
release. In case of any issue which cannot be sorted out through 
correspondence, OIL may ask for on- site advice of the expert at no 
extra cost to OIL. The bidder shall depute such expert and the 
dates and duration of his/her visit may be decided mutually 
11.  Bidder to ensure proactive detection and removal of any virus that 
may affect the computing, storage, applications, systems and 
communications infrastructure. The vendor is to use detection 
tools, keep the tools current, support the users in the recovery 
process if infected, remove root causes for potential future infection 
and to report to OIL on all incidents and actions to prevent future 
infections. 
12.  Bidder will be responsible to remove bugs that are already 
identified/ will be identified during the contract period. 
13.  Bidder to share the list of already identified bugs at the time of 
sharing the LOI during the Go-LIVE phase. Tickets raised against 
these bugs must be resolved by the bidder in a timely manner as 
per defined SLAs. 
14.  Bidder to support in ticket resolution and technical 
assistance/discussion wherever required for issues reported by end 
users/departments for end issues related to the web portal. 

--- PAGE 106 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 106 of 273 
 
15.  Bidder will be responsible to perform data validation/ correction to 
enable easy and convenient user experience of frontend of mobile 
app. The selected bidder will be responsible for data integrity, will 
also identify the type & nature of data error and reports will be 
handed over to concerned OIL team or any other nominated agency 
from OIL for correction and resubmission 
16.  Bidder will update training, user manuals etc. on a regular basis 
and provide training to designated members of OIL production/ IT 
team, if required. 
17.  The bidder should maintain contact with OIL's personnel for any 
assistance/guidance on technical issues pertaining to the solution, 
through telephone, e-mail, letter and fax. In case of any issue which 
cannot be sorted out through e-mail etc., OIL may ask for on-site 
advice of expert. The party shall depute such expert and the dates 
and duration of his/her visit may be decided mutually. 
18.  Any update requiring system downtime, bidder will share the 
downtime window with OIL for approval. Once approved the 
downtime to be carried out in that time frame. In case of failure the 
system is to revert to the same state without any defects. 
19.  Bidder shall provide software updates or other mitigating controls 
when vulnerabilities are discovered as part of regular health check. 
20.  Bidder shall configure & customize the following as per OIL 
requirement during the AMC period.  
 User Interface 
 Integrations 
 Workflows 
 Business/decision rules 
 Reporting hierarchy  
 Version Management & Rollbacks & so on. 
21.  Bidder should build an ability to historize, report and track the 
changes made in the solution with the details of time, type of 
change, change details and user related to the change. 
22.  Necessary VAPT to be conducted at regular intervals (12 months) 
mandatorily and whenever specially requested by OIL through 
CERT-In empanelled auditors. The observations must be noted, and 
vulnerabilities mitigated within reasonable time as decided in 
consultation with the OIL IT team. 
23.  OIL might conduct security audit every 6 months and submit a 
security audit report which shall include the app/ web application 
level vulnerabilities and provide recommendations for remediations 
of identified vulnerabilities. Bidder shall be responsible for fixing 
issues raised by third party security Auditor nominated by OIL so 
that security audit clearance certificate can be issued as per CERT-

--- PAGE 107 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 107 of 273 
 
In requirements. 
24.  Solution shall have capabilities to create session logs (including 
reasons for overriding tool recommendations), access logs, process 
logs & design platform logs of all user and system activities. System 
shall be able to report any faults if found in these logs. 
25.  Bidder is responsible for both planned and unplanned shutdowns. 
In case of a planned shutdown, bidder needs to get approval from 
OIL team and convey well in advance of the system downtime. The 
downtime window will be conveyed by bidder and scheduled 
maintenance will be carried out during that time period only. 
Bidder will up the system with business as usual conditions within 
the downtime window. 
26.  System shall have the facility for taking backup of all data 
whenever required. The frequency of data back-up will be decided 
by bidder in consultation with OIL team. The recovery of backup 
and restoration of the software in case of any failure or a required 
recovery procedure is responsibility of the bidder. 
27.  Bidder to ensure any hardware and software issue, failure, 
breakdown, upgrade, replacement or in any way the 
hardware/software is not in working condition needs to be resolved 
by the bidder. The OIL team will log a ticket into the portal provided 
by the bidder and the same shall be tracked as per the SLA section.  
28.  Bidder to ensure regular backup of application and database 
servers as per department needs are done. The frequency of backup 
will be decided as per discussions with the OIL IT team. 
29.  Bidder needs to ensure solution back up of OIL data with the help 
of  
Files & Images: Frequency for full backups and incremental 
backups 
Databases and log files: Frequency for full backups and 
incremental backups 
30.  Bidder will be responsible to configure, schedule, monitor and 
manage backups of all the data including but not limited to files, 
images and databases as per finalized policy discussions with OIL. 
Also, bidder will be responsible for administration, tuning, 
optimization, planning, maintenance, and operations management 
for backup and restore. 

--- PAGE 108 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 108 of 273 
 
 EXIT MANAGEMENT / TRANSITION OUT PHASE 
31.  The ownership of the data generated upon usage of the system, at 
any point of time during the contract or expiry or termination of the 
contract, shall rest absolutely with OIL. 
32.  Bidder needs to provide a comprehensive exit management plan 
and ensure that all the documentation required for smooth 
transition including configuration documents are kept up to date 
and is handed over to the OIL during regular intervals as well as 
during the exit management process. 
33.  Bidder needs to address and rectify the problems with respect to 
migration of the OIL’s application and related IT infrastructure 
during the transition 
34.  Bidder needs to train and transfer the knowledge to OIL and ensure 
similar continuity and performance of the Services post expiry of 
the contract. 
 
4. SERVICE LEVEL AGREEMENT  
The purpose of this Service Level Agreement (hereinafter referred to as SLA) 
is to clearly define the levels of service which shall be provided by the 
System Integrator to OIL India Limited for the duration of this Agreement. 
Service Level Agreement (SLA) shall become the part of Agreement between 
OIL India and the Successful Bidder. SLA defines the terms of the 
Successful Bidder’s responsibility in ensuring the timely delivery of the 
deliverables and the correctness of the same based on the agreed 
Performance Indicators as detailed in this section. The Successful Bidder to 
comply with Service Levels requirements to ensure adherence to project 
timelines, quality and availability of services. 
Penalties shall not be levied in the following cases: 
a) There is a Force Majeure event effecting the SLA which is beyond the 
control of the Successful Bidder.  
b) The non‐compliance to the SLA is due to reasons beyond the control 
of the Bidder. 
 
Note: Bidder is also required to note that in case of SLAs not being made 
applicable for cases considered as “beyond the control of bidders”, the 
bidder would still need to replace the component (if it is not functional as 
per SLA) within the SLA defined for resolution of Critical Level/ High Level/ 
Medium Level/ Low Level issues. In case the bidder doesn’t adhere to the 
Issue Resolution SLA timelines, the original SLA shall be made applicable. 

--- PAGE 109 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 109 of 273 
 
4.1 Definitions 
For the purposes of this service level agreement, the definitions and terms 
specified in the contract along with the following terms shall have the 
meanings set forth below: 
SN Term Definition 
1 Uptime Shall mean the time period for the specified services / 
components with the specified technical service 
standards are available to the user department. Uptime, 
in percentage, of any component (Non-IT and IT) can be 
calculated as: 
Uptime = {1‐ [(Downtime) / (Total Time – Scheduled 
Maintenance 
Time)]} * 100 
2 Downtime Shall mean the time period for which the specified 
services/ components with specified technical and 
service standards are not 
available to the user department and excludes downtime 
owing to Force Majeure & Reasons beyond control of SI. 
3 Latency Refers to the average time required for round‐trip packet 
transfers between selected junctions/locations on the 
selected portions of the network backbone during a 
calendar month. 
4 Packet 
Loss Refers to the average percentage of IP packets 
transmitted between selected junctions/locations during 
a calendar month that are not successfully delivered 
5 Incident Refers to any event/abnormalities in the functioning of 
the Services specified as part of the Scope of Work of the 
System Integrator that may lead to disruption in normal 
operations of the surveillance system and other field 
equipment. 
6 Response 
Time Shall mean the time elapsed from the moment an 
incident is reported in the Helpdesk, over phone or by 
any applicable mode of communication, to the time 
when a resource is assigned for the resolution of the 
same 
7 Resolution 
Time Shall mean the time taken (after the incident has been 
reported at the helpdesk), in resolving (diagnosing, 

--- PAGE 110 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 110 of 273 
 
SN Term Definition 
troubleshooting and fixing) or escalating (to the second 
level or to respective bidders, getting the confirmatory 
details about the same from the bidder and conveying 
the same to the end user), the services related troubles 
during the first level escalation. 
8 Incidence 
Resolution Resolution of incidence as per below priority levels: 
 P1 (Critical): Impacting Application/Database servers, 
application, an error renders portal solution 
completely unusable or nearly unusable or 
introduces high degree of operational risk. No 
workaround is available. Large number of users 
and/or core functionality is severely impacted. 
 P2 (High): Error renders essential functionality of the 
application to be consistently unavailable or 
obstructed and causes a moderate level of hindrance 
or risk. Workarounds may be available, but the use of 
application is acutely degraded and cause continuing 
operational risk. A moderate number of users are 
significantly impacted, but overall the application 
continues to function  
 P3 (Medium): Error is an inconvenience or causes 
inconsistent behavior, which does not impede the 
normal functioning of the application. It could be an 
error that occurs inconsistently and affects non-
essential functions, or it is an inconvenience that 
impacts a small number of users 
 P4 (Low): Error has a small degree of significance or 
is a minor cosmetic issue or is a “one off” case. A “one 
off” case occurs when the error occurs infrequently 
and cannot be reproduced easily. These are errors 
that do not impact the daily use of the program. A 
Low error is something that does not affect normal 
use, can be accepted for a period, but the user would 
eventually want changed  
 P5 (Very Low): Error/failure which has very low 
business impact but is required to be addressed so 
that it is resolved in near future.  
 
Severity Response Time Target Resolution 
Critical (P1) 1 hour 4 Business Hours 

--- PAGE 111 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 111 of 273 
 
SN Term Definition 
High (P2) 4 hours 24 Hours 
Medium (P3) 8 hours 2 Business day 
Low (P4) 24 hours 3 Business days 
Very Low (P5) 2 Business days 15 Business Days 
 
 
4.2 Measurement of SLA 
The SLA metrics provided specifies performance parameters as baseline 
performance, lower performance and breach. All SLA calculations will be 
done on quarterly basis. The SLA also specifies the liquidated damages for 
breach conditions. The SI will get 100% of the Contracted value if there are 
no breaches reported for any of the SLA’s. The penalty would be 
compounded every quarter. The quarterly payment shall be made after 
deducting the liquidated damages as mentioned above.  
SLA monitoring would be responsibility of the SI. The SI must provide 
monthly reports of all the SLAs and any ad‐hoc report as may be required 
by OIL. OIL shall also have the right to conduct, either itself or through any 
other agency as it may deem fit, an audit/revision of the SLA parameters. 
The SLAs defined, shall be reviewed by OIL on quarterly basis after 
consulting the SI, Project Management Consultants and other experts. All 
the changes would be made by OIL after consultation with the SI and might 
include some corrections to reduce undue relaxation in Service levels or 
some corrections to avoid unrealistic imposition of liquidated damages, 
which are noticed after project has gone live. 
4.3 During Implementation SLA 
These SLAs shall be used to evaluate the timelines for completion of 
deliverables till Go-Live. 
S. 
No 
Definition Timely delivery of deliverables would 
comprise entire bill of material and the 
application systems, and as per 
successful UAT of the same 
1 Service Level 
Requirement All the deliverables defined in the contract 
must be submitted on‐time on the date as 
mentioned in the contract with no delay 
2 Measurement of 
Service Level To be measured in number of weeks of 
delay from the timelines mentioned in the 

--- PAGE 112 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 112 of 273 
 
Parameter section “Project Timelines” and “Payment 
Milestones” 
3 Penalty for 
Nonachievement of 
SLA Requirement 
Any delay in the delivery of the project 
deliverables (solely attributable to bidder) 
would attract a liquidated damage per week 
of 0.5% of the value per week of the 
services cost as mentioned in commercial 
bid for first 8 weeks and 1% per week for 
every subsequent week. 
If the liquidated damage reaches 10% of the 
total contract value, OIL may invoke 
termination clause.  
 
4.4 Post-Implementation Phase 
1. These SLAs shall be used to evaluate the performance of the services 
on monthly basis, but penalties would be levied for cumulative performance 
for the quarterly basis. 
2. Penalty levied for non‐performance as per SLA requirements shall be 
deducted through subsequent payments due from OIL or through the 
Performance Bank Guarantee. 
3. The upper limit of penalty would be capped at 10% of the AMC 
contract value for each quarter. In case the calculated penalty crosses 10% 
penalty of the AMC contract value in 2 subsequent quarters, the penalty 
cap for the third quarter onwards, for each quarter will increase by 5% over 
the penalty cap for the preceding quarter till it reaches 20% of the AMC 
contract value 
4. Where SLA measurement is done on a monthly basis, sum of 
Liquidated Damages associated with each month shall apply for the 
quarter. 
5. Performance Liquidated Damages shall be levied for not meeting each 
SLA. 
6. Breach of SLAs target shall result in various severity level based on 
the business impact the component causes to services. 
7. The severity levels of SLAs and the associated financial Liquidated 
Damages are defined as per the following table: 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 113 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 113 of 273 
 
Severity Response 
Time 
Target 
Resolution 
Liquidated 
Damages as a % of 
quarterly payment 
applicable 
Critical (P1) 1 hour 4 Business 
Hours 
No Penalty (95-
100%) 
2% (<95%) 
High (P2) 4 hours 24 Hours 
No Penalty (90-
100%) 
1% (<90%)  
Medium (P3) 8 hours 2 Business day 
No Penalty (90-
100%) 
0.5% (<90%) 
Low (P4) 24 hours 3 Business days 
No Penalty (90-
100%) 
0.1% (<90%) 
Very Low (P5) 2 Business 
days 
15 Business 
days 0.1% 
 
5. SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT 
 
Mobilization 
 Mobilization Time, Date of Commencement of the Contract: 
Contractor / Consultant must mobilize his / her/ their resources 
(including personnel) within 15 (fifteen) days of issue of Work Order. 
The date of completion of mobilization of resources (including 
personnel) by the Contractor / Consultant or 15 (fifteen) days from 
the date of issue of Work Order, whichever is earlier, will be the Date 
of Commencement of the Contract. Mobilization shall be considered 
as completed once a kick-off meeting is done between OIL and the 
Successful Bidder after fulfilling the above requirements. 
 
 

--- PAGE 114 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 114 of 273 
 
Documentation 
 Bidder must provide necessary documentation (Software Requirement 
Specs Document, Functional Document and Technical Document) of 
the project to OIL. 
 OIL shall retain all right, title and interest in and to any OIL generated 
data input into solution. 
 As and when required by OIL, proper handover of the application (in 
operational state) should be given to OIL. 
Definitions 
 “Hardware” refers to all hardware including cloud hosted server, 
compute, storage, back-up solutions, back-up server, networking etc. 
as well as any other peripherals as mentioned under section technical 
specification.  
 “Software” refers to all necessary software required for the operator 
rounds solution implementation and to run in a secured manner. 
Software includes all operating software as well as application 
software as mentioned under section terms of reference and technical 
specification.  
 "Certificate of Completion" means certificate issued by the Company to 
the bidder stating that the firm has successfully completed the 
jobs/works assigned to him and submitted all necessary reports as 
required by the Company.  
 “Warranty Period” refers to a period not less than Six (6) months after 
successful installation, commissioning & Solution Go-Live. Warranty 
period will commence only after installation and commissioning of the 
solution defined in the scope of work. 
 Duration of experience for evaluation of bidder/ manpower required in 
this contract, will be considered till original bid closing date, unless 
stated otherwise.  
 
Personnel to be deployed by Successful Bidder:  
 Bidder warrants that it shall provide competent, qualified, and 
sufficiently experienced personnel to perform the work correctly and 
efficiently. The bidder shall deploy resources at the client site in 
Duliajan for configuration, customization, development, testing, 
implementation etc. All related expenses to be borne by the bidder. 
 The Bidder should ensure that their personnel observe applicable 
company and statutory safety requirement. Upon OIL’s written 
request, bidder, entirely at its own expense, shall remove immediately 
any personnel of the bidder determined by OIL to be unsuitable and 
shall promptly replace such personnel with personnel acceptable to 
the Company.  
 The Bidder shall be solely responsible throughout the period of the 
contract including the installation and commissioning phase for 
providing all requirements of their personnel including but not limited 
to, their transportation to & fro from Duliajan/ field site, enroute/ 
local boarding, lodging & medical attention etc. OIL shall have no 

--- PAGE 115 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 115 of 273 
 
responsibility or liability in this regard. However, OIL shall provide 
available medical assistance/facilities to bidder’s personnel in case of 
emergency at its own establishment on chargeable basis.  
 Bidder's key personnel shall be fluent in English language (both 
writing and speaking).  
 The Bidder should ensure that personnel deployed for execution 
should be medically fit. 
 Bidder to ensure that the proposed CVs for the project are on bidder’s 
payroll for the last one year atleast from the original bid closing date. 
 Bidder will also provide 1 additional CV during bid submission for the 
role of Project Manager and Technology Architect, which will act as 
back up for the primary key personnel approved for this project. These 
additional CVs should meet the manpower requirements as listed in 
Section 8 to execute the project successfully.  
 However, for the evaluation purposes, CV with lower experience will be 
considered.   
 Bidder to ensure that profiles submitted along with bid should be 
deployed for complete project delivery. In case of any deviation from 
this mandatory requirement it must be approved by OIL.  
 Key personnel cannot be changed during the tenure of the Contract, 
especially during design, development and testing phase except due to 
sickness/death/resignation of the personnel in which case the 
replaced person should have equal experience and qualification, 
which will be again subject to approval by OIL. 
 
Obligations of Bidder: 
 
 The bidder must supply software licenses, provision cloud 
infrastructure, other on-premise hardware (if required) and render 
services of design, development, system integrations, commissioning 
the solution and imparting trainings as per the scope of work. All 
services rendered as defined under the scope shall be done at FHQ, 
Duliajan, Assam unless approved otherwise by OIL.  
 Perform all other obligations, work and services which are required by 
the terms of this contract or which reasonably can be implied from 
such terms as being necessary for the successful and timely 
completion of the work.  
 On OIL's request, bidder shall remove and replace at their expenses, 
any of their personnel whose presence is considered reasonably 
undesirable or performance is found to be poor in the opinion of 
Company. The Bidder shall provide the supporting staff and labour at 
their own expenses.  
 Bidder shall be deemed to have satisfied himself before submitting 
their bid as to the correctness and sufficiency of its bid for the 
services required and of the rates and prices quoted, which rates and 
prices shall cover all its obligations under the contract.  
 Bidder shall give or provide all necessary supervision for performance 
of the services during and after design, development and thereafter 

--- PAGE 116 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 116 of 273 
 
within the warranty period as OIL may consider necessary for the 
proper fulfilling of bidder's obligations under the contract. 
 The bidder will be fully responsible for any unauthorized imports or 
wrong declaration of goods and will have to pay the penalty and other 
consequences as levied by the port/customs authorities for such 
unauthorized imports.  
 The bidder shall bear all expenses on account of repair/replacement 
of all their materials, equipment etc. consequent upon any 
damage/loss/non-performance during services implementation.  
 The bidder shall follow its own safety rules, in addition to rules 
prescribed under Indian Laws in this respect. Bidder must take 
complete responsibility of all safety aspects during the entire 
execution of the project. 
 
Confidentiality 
 Bidder agrees to be bound by professional secrecy and undertake to 
keep confidential any information obtained during the execution of the 
project and to take all reasonable steps to ensure the bidder’s 
personnel, likewise, keep such information confidential.  
 Bidder must keep OIL Data confidential and agree not to disclose OIL 
Data to any third party without having first received written approval 
from OIL. 
 This obligation shall keep in force even after the expiry of the contract 
period and until such information will be disclosed by OIL.  
 
Other Conditions 
 OIL reserves the right of procuring additional software user licenses at 
agreed rates, not more than the quoted rates of the Bidders’ offer, 
within five (5) years from date of Go-Live of the solution. The newly 
procured licenses of the software will be covered under AMC in same 
terms and conditions as stated in this tender document.  
 OIL reserves the right of procuring any of the hardware at mutually 
agreed rates, not more than the quoted rates of the Bidders’ offer, 
within five (5) year from date of Go-Live of the solution and governed 
by the same terms and conditions as stated in the contract. 
 The commercial implication of increase in user licenses and data 
exchange on the cloud infrastructure services needs to be presented 
by the vendor and must be approved by OIL.   
 The Contract price and unit rates shall remain firm and fixed during 
the execution of the Contract and not subject to variation on any 
account.  
 All payments will be made directly to the successful bidder against 
invoices raised by the bidder along with supporting documents and at 
timelines prescribed under section of payment milestones. 
 Bidder is responsible to manage and settle the operating expenses and 
other related expenses as mentioned in the SOR on behalf of OIL in 
the duration of the contract. 

--- PAGE 117 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 117 of 273 
 
 The Bidder will assign a Project Manager with single point 
responsibility for the entire project cycle. Any issue regarding the 
project design or implementation related issues shall be addressed by 
this Project Manager.  
 The Project Leader and Manager deployed on the OIL Project by the 
vendor must be designated to liaise with OIL for regular interactions, 
progress review and issue resolution 
 Project Manager to adopt recognized project management methodology 
to oversee and manage the complete delivery and coordinate all sub-
elements of the project and manage overall project GANTT chart, RACI 
chart, Communication plan, Risk plan and HSE plan. 
 Project Manager with his team will manage the solution 
implementation and delivery including   
o Install, test, integrate and document the technology used in the 
project.  
o Provide walk-thru, acceptance and sign-off on technology.   
 The Project Manager will also arrange for the fort-nightly meeting with 
OIL representatives at Duliajan for the project execution status and 
future plan. The minutes of the meeting duly signed by the Bidder and 
OIL representatives need to be documented properly.  
 
Effective Date: The contract shall become effective as of the date Company 
notifies Contractor / Consultant in writing (through Letter of Award) that it 
has been awarded the contract. Such date of notification of award of 
Contract will be the Effective Date of Contract. The web version of the 
software deployed should be in English. 
 
6. KEY STEPS OF IMPLEMENTATION 
 
S. No Key Steps Remarks  
 PHASE 1: SOLUTION DESIGN, DEVELOPMEENT AND 
DEPLOYMENT  
 
1.  Solution design: 
 Design integrated solution architecture to deliver 
business and functional requirements. The 
solution design shall have seamless integration 
among all the constituent components and shall 
include the application architecture, user 
interface, database models, security/user access 
details, etc. 
 Analyse system requirements and detail the 
system infrastructure (design specification) 
including hardware, network communications, 
software, report/job scheduling, backup, 
integration, and compatibility with existing IT 
infrastructure. 
 

--- PAGE 118 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 118 of 273 
 
S. No Key Steps Remarks  
 Align the solution blueprint with designated OIL 
stakeholders including reviewing the 
checklists/data entry formats, activity list, 
workflows, reports etc. for complete coverage of 
operator rounds and current maintenance activity 
generation processes. 
2.  Solution build: 
 Develop, integrate all components of the proposed 
solution, in a manner that all functional and 
business requirements are captured to build the 
minimum viable product. 
 Configure data entry forms, checklist, activities for 
operator rounds to deliver the design document 
specifications. 
 Build necessary backend databases and enable 
workflows for activity and information flow across 
user levels.  
 Set up specific extractions of data from the source 
systems. Sync mechanism through integration 
layer with data systems to be created and ensure 
data accuracy and correctness. 
 Build a user interface for manual data entry (where 
applicable). The bidder shall endeavour to 
minimize the requirements of manual entry to 
bring in the intended efficiencies to the system. 
 Security checking and audits as per OIL 
requirements   
 Periodic reviews to be done at this stage. 
 
3.  Solution test  
 Prepare test strategy and test plan to create test 
cases, test scenarios, test scripts, test results, test 
summary result and tested build.  
 Impart solution training to nominated users for 
conducting UAT. 
 Provide test reports and results in form of UAT 
signoffs 
 Supervise the overall testing by daily/weekly test 
reporting in terms of project related metrics, defect 
tracking and reports. 
 
4.  Go live  
Shift/migrate the application from Development / Pre-
 

--- PAGE 119 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 119 of 273 
 
S. No Key Steps Remarks  
production hosted environment to a fully scaled-up 
Production/Go Live environment 
 Deployment strategy and plan for production 
environment, Data migration plan  
 Go live of the solution 
 Observation of deployed solution. 
 Design and roll-out Go-live communication,  
 Provide detailed documentation for technology 
architecture, customizations, software 
development along with user manual and other 
reference documents. 
 Support through completion of stabilization, 
system monitoring, and optimization. 
 
 PHASE 2: TRAINING  
6. Create role-based training videos and detailed 
documents for OIL users. The videos and documents 
should be accessible to the relevant role via help feature 
on the application/portal. 
 
7. Train the users where the solution will be implemented.   
8. Training of core S&E team on all the features of HSE 
portal  
 
 
7. PROJECT TIMELINES 
 
Timelines of the Contract: Timelines of the project is mentioned under 
this section of project timelines. 
SN Major 
Milestones Activities 
Target 
Completion 
Timelines 
1. Project Kick-Off Interactive meeting to establish 
communication and 
(T0) 15 days 
from issue 
of work 

--- PAGE 120 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 120 of 273 
 
SN Major 
Milestones Activities 
Target 
Completion 
Timelines 
administrative protocols for the 
project and to review the 
implementation plan. 
order. * 
2. Requirement 
gathering and 
solution 
blueprint 
On-site meetings & discussions 
with stakeholders, complete 
review and mapping of existing 
processes, preparation and sign-
off of solution blueprint  
Up to 4th 
week from 
(T0) 
3. Build 
Prototype/ 
wireframes  
Create wireframes, user stories, 
prototype, Development of the 
document workflows & operating 
steps etc. 
Up to 8th 
week from 
(T0) 
4. Cloud setup and 
configuration 
Setup and complete cloud 
integration with existing SAP ERP 
and other source systems at OIL 
Up to 8th 
Week from 
(T0). 
5. Solution 
deployment and 
Configuration 
Design database, s/w deployment, 
business logic and workflow build, 
interface design, checklist 
configuration etc. 
Up to 16th 
week from 
(T0). 
6. Testing Validation, UAT and Sign-off Up to 20th 
week from 
(T0) 
7. Training and 
Go-Live 
User training, Knowledge Transfer 
and Go Live 
Up to 24th 
week from 
(T0) 
8. Solution 
Warranty 
On-Site and Off-site support for 
overall solution warranty 
Upto 6 
months from 
Go-Live date 
9. 
Maintenance, 
Upgrades and 
Service Support 
Providing maintenance & support 
services as defined under Section 
of “Annual Maintenance – Terms 
and Conditions” 
Ongoing for 
3+1 years 
post solution 
warranty 
period 

--- PAGE 121 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 121 of 273 
 
*Start of project will be counted from 30 days of LOA or 15 days from the 
issue of workorder, whichever is later. 
8. QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENT OF THE MANPOWER  
Following are the minimum roles to be positioned for successful 
delivery of the project.  
To substantiate the experience asked for, the bidder must submit the 
relevant CV of the persons who will be associated with OIL for the 
duration of this entire project. OIL would do due diligence and 
approve the placement of the person. 
The Team proposed to be deployed shall remain unchanged during the 
contract period unless under unavoidable circumstances. In such a 
situation, the change will only be permitted with prior written consent 
of OIL. The new member(s) proposed to be deployed shall also meet 
the minimum experience as defined in the tender. 
SN Role Required Qualification 
1.  Project 
Manager 
1. Should have bachelor's degree in Engineering or 
related discipline 
2. Should have 10+ years of working experience 
3. Experience in implementing proposed product 
solution at 3+ projects in last 5 years. 
4. Should have led deployment of proposed 
software solution at least 1(one) client in Oil & 
Gas / Chemical/ Metal & Mining industry in the 
last 5 years reckoned from original bid closing 
date 
2.  Technology 
Architect 
1. Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, 
Engineering or related discipline. 
2. 8+ years of software development experience 
and architecting solutions. 
3. Should have led deployment of proposed 
software solution in field Health and Safety at 3 
(three) or more projects in the last 5 years 
reckoned from original bid closing date. 
4. Should have led deployment of proposed 
software solution including integration with 
SAP ERP modules at least 1(one) client in the 
last 5 years reckoned from original bid closing 
date 
5. Deep understanding of a variety of 
programming tools and development platforms 
especially the proposed product solution along 
with implementation experience of deploying 
software solutions on public/private cloud 
6. Experience in integrating with enterprise 

--- PAGE 122 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 122 of 273 
 
SN Role Required Qualification 
applications such as SAP for master data 
integration, read and update SAP tables and 
create ABAP scripts etc. 
7. Expertise and in-depth knowledge of enterprise 
systems, networking modules, and software 
integration. 
3.  Health, 
Safety and 
Environment 
Domain 
Expert 
1. Should have bachelor’s degree in any field of 
Health, Safety and Environment or related 
fields from recognized institute in India or 
abroad. 
2. Should have overall experience of 8+ years. 
3. Should have 5+ years of experience in field of 
HSE. 
 
9. PAYMENT MILESTONES 
 
SN Major Heads Payment Schedule (% of 
quoted price) 
Implementation Services 
1. 
Submission of solution blueprint 
design and technical documents 
for software application modules 
(Architecture, DB design, Test Plan 
etc.) and sign-off 
25% of the value quoted in line 
item 10 of the price bid. 
2. 
System integration testing (SIT), 
User Acceptance Testing & Sign-
Off 
50% of the value quoted in line 
item 10 of the price bid. 
3. Successful Go-Live of the end-to-
end solution 
25% of the value quoted in line 
item 10 of the price bid. 
Solution Warranty Charges 
1. 
Successful provisioning of 
Software Licenses and Go-Live of 
the end-to-end solution. 
50% of the value quoted 
against SaaS and warranty for 
first 6 months. (Line item 20 of 
the price bid. 

--- PAGE 123 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 123 of 273 
 
SN Major Heads Payment Schedule (% of 
quoted price) 
2. 
End of 6 months of warranty 
period 
50% of the value quoted 
against SaaS and warranty for 
first 6 months. (Line item 20 of 
the price bid. 
One-time Software License/ Connectors Cost 
1. Successful Go-Live of the end-to-
end solution 
100% of the value quoted in 
line item 30 of the price bid. 
Software as a Service Cost 
1. 
Provision of software licenses for 
annual consumption post solution 
Go-Live and end of Warranty 
Period 
100% of the applicable annual 
license fees quoted in line 
items 40, 50 and 60 of the 
price bid at the start of year 2, 
3 and 4 respectively. 
Annual Maintenance & Support Service Cost 
1. Quarterly payment of annual 
maintenance fees 
100% of the applicable value 
(net of applicable 
penalties)  calculated based on 
hour of services rendered every 
quarter and hourly support 
service rate quoted in the line 
item 70 of the price bid.  
2. Training and Knowledge Transfer 
100% of the applicable value 
based hours of training 
delivered every quarter 
multiplied by hourly rate 
quoted in the line item 80 of 
the price bid. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 124 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 124 of 273 
 
APPENDICES 
Appendix 1: Organization Hierarchy & Mines Organogram 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 125 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 125 of 273 
 
Appendix 2: Pre-Spud Audit 
Sample Pre-Spud Safety Audit Report  
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 126 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 126 of 273 
 
 


--- PAGE 127 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 127 of 273 
 
Sample Pre-Spud Compliance Report  
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 128 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 128 of 273 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 129 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 129 of 273 
 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 130 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 130 of 273 
 
Appendix 3: Sample Request For Pre Work Over Audit 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 131 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 131 of 273 
 
Appendix 4: Environmental Audit 
Sample Environment Statement  
 
 
 


--- PAGE 132 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 132 of 273 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 133 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 133 of 273 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 134 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 134 of 273 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 135 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 135 of 273 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 136 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 136 of 273 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 137 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 137 of 273 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 138 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 138 of 273 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 139 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 139 of 273 
 
Sample Checklist Environmental Audit 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 140 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 140 of 273 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 141 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 141 of 273 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 142 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 142 of 273 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 143 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 143 of 273 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 144 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 144 of 273 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 145 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 145 of 273 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 146 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 146 of 273 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 147 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 147 of 273 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 148 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 148 of 273 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 149 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 149 of 273 
 
 
Sample 6-monthly EC Compliance 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 150 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 150 of 273 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 151 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 151 of 273 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 152 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 152 of 273 
 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 153 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 153 of 273 
 
Appendix 5: Sample DGMS Audit Findings Tracker 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 154 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 154 of 273 
 
Au
dit 
No
. 
Recomme
ndation 
No. 
Mi
ne 
department/I
nstallation 
Da
te 
of 
Au
dit 
DGM
S 
letter 
Refer
ence 
Regul
ation 
Recomme
ndation 
OIL 
reply 
lette
r 
refer
ence 
Compl
iance 
E
D
C 
STA
TUS 
Act
ion 
to 
be 
tak
en 
by 
Appendix 6: OISD Audit 
Sample OISD Audit Findings Tracker 
 
 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 155 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 155 of 273 
 
Sample OISD Status Responsibility Matrix 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OISD Audit Findings Headers 
Installat
ion 
Observa
tion 
Last 
Action 
taken 
OISD's 
Review EDC Action 
taken Status Respon
sibility 
Service 
Dept. 
Support 
                  
 


--- PAGE 156 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 156 of 273 
 
Appendix 7: Accident Reporting 
Sample Accident Report  
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 157 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 157 of 273 
 
Sample SOP for Reporting of Accidents in OIL ERP 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 158 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 158 of 273 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 159 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 159 of 273 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 160 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 160 of 273 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 161 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 161 of 273 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 162 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 162 of 273 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 163 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 163 of 273 
 
Appendix 8: OISD FIR 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 164 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 164 of 273 
 
Appendix 9: Sample OMR Forms for Incident Reporting 
 
Form 4A 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 165 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 165 of 273 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 166 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 166 of 273 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 167 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 167 of 273 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 168 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 168 of 273 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 169 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 169 of 273 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 170 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 170 of 273 
 
 
 
Form 4B 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 171 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 171 of 273 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 172 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 172 of 273 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 173 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 173 of 273 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 174 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 174 of 273 
 
Form 4C 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 175 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 175 of 273 
 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 176 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 176 of 273 
 
Appendix 10: Near Miss 
 
Sample Near Miss Report Form 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 177 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 177 of 273 
 
Appendix 11: JSA 
Sample JSA Format 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 178 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 178 of 273 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 179 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 179 of 273 
 
Sample JSA 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 180 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 180 of 273 
 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 181 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 181 of 273 
 
Appendix 12: Fire Safety Audit 
Sample Fire Safety Audit  
 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 182 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 182 of 273 
 
Sample Compliance of Fire Safety Audit 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 183 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 183 of 273 
 
Sample FAFFT 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 184 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 184 of 273 
 
Sample Extinguisher Inspection 
 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 185 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 185 of 273 
 
Appendix 13: Sample PPE Schedule 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 186 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 186 of 273 
 
Appendix 14: Sample Pit level Safety Meeting (Form for recording Minutes) 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 187 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 187 of 273 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 188 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 188 of 273 
 
Appendix 15: Sample MOM (Minutes of the Meeting form) for Departmental 
Safety Meeting 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 189 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 189 of 273 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 190 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 190 of 273 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 191 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 191 of 273 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 192 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 192 of 273 
 
Appendix 16: Sample Agenda Departmental Safety Meeting 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 193 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 193 of 273 
 
Appendix 17: Sample Agenda Field Level HSE Council Meeting 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 194 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 194 of 273 
 
Appendix 18: Sample Environment Monitoring Format 
 
Monthly Environment Compliance Report 
Environment Parameter Monitoring 
1 Is DG stack monitoring done   
2 Is Ambient monitoring done   
3 Is Noise monitoring done   
4 Is Formation water testing done   
5 Is Ground water testing done   
Water & Waste Generation Details 
1 
Details of raw water consumed (KL/day) 
Cooling use:   
Domestic use:   
Operation use:   
2 
Effluent generation (KL/day) 
Cooling use :   
Domestic use:   
Operation use:   
Formation water   
Hazardous waste generation & disposal details 
3 Category of waste 
Generation ( 
Kg/Month) 
Disposal ( 
Kg/Month) 
Balance at last of the Month( 
Kg/Month) 
Used Oil/Gear Oil       

--- PAGE 195 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 195 of 273 
 
 
Oily Sludge       
Oil filters       
Oil used cotton & cloths       
Empty Container/Barrels       
Used Resins from Filters (Water 
Softner , Iron removal filter)       
 
  

--- PAGE 196 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 196 of 273 
 
Appendix 19: Hazardous Waste in Form 4 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 197 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 197 of 273 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 198 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 198 of 273 
 
Appendix 20: E-waste in Form 3 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 199 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 199 of 273 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 200 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 200 of 273 
 
Appendix 21: Battery Waste in Form 8 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 201 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7137P22 
Page 201 of 273 
 
 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 202 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 202 of 273 
To, 
GM-CONTRACT(HoD) 
OIL INDIA LIMITED 
DULIAJAN-786602 
 
PART-IV 
SAFETY MEASURES   
 
Description of service: IFB No. CDH7317P22 for ‘Implementation of initiative-
HSSE Incident Reporting and Tracking Application for four (04) years and six (06) 
months and extendable by one (01) year under the Digitization Project (DRIVE).’ 
 
Sir,    
We hereby confirm that we have fully understood the safety measures to be 
adopted during execution of the above contract and that the same have been explained 
to us by the concerned authorities. We also give the following assurances. 
a) Only experienced and competent persons shall be engaged by us for carrying 
out work under the said contract. 
b) The names of the authorized persons who would be supervising the jobs on 
day to day basis from our end are the following: 
 
i) ________________________________ 
 
ii) ________________________________ 
 
iii) ________________________________ 
 
The above personnel are fully familiar with the nature of jobs assigned and safety 
precautions required. 
c) Due notice would be given for any change of personnel under item (b) above. 
d) We hereby accept the responsibility for the safety of all the personnel engaged 
by us and for the safety of the Company's personnel and property involved during the 
course of our working under this contract. We would ensure that all the provisions 
under the Oil Mines Regulations, 1984 and other safety rules related to execution of our 
work would be strictly followed by our personnel. Any violation pointed out by the 
Company's Engineers would be rectified forthwith or the work suspended till such time 
the rectification is completed by us and all expenditure towards this would be on our 
account. 
 
e) We confirm that all persons engaged by us would be provided with the 
necessary Safety Gears at our cost. 
 
f) All losses caused due to inadequate safety measures or lack of supervision on 
our part would be fully compensated by us and the Company will not be responsible for 
any lapses on our part in this regard. 
 
g) We shall abide by the following HSE (Health, Safety & Environmental) POINTS: 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 203 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 203 of 273 
GENERAL HEALTH, SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT (HSE) POINTS: 
1. It will be solely the Contractor's responsibility to fulfill all the legal formalities 
with respect to the Health, Safety and Environmental aspects of the entire job (namely; 
the person employed by him, the equipment, the environment, etc.) under the 
jurisdiction of the district of that state where it is operating. Ensure that all sub-
contractors hired by him comply with the same requirement as the contractor himself 
and shall be liable for ensuring compliance all HSE laws by the sub or sub-sub-
contractors. 
2. Every person deployed by the contractor in a mine must wear safety gadgets to be 
provided by the contractor. The Contractor shall provide proper Personnel Protective 
Equipment as per the hazard identified and risk assessed for the job and conforming to 
statutory requirement and company PPE schedule. Safety appliances like protective 
footwear, Safety Helmet and Full Body harness has to be DGMS approved. Necessary 
supportive document shall have to be submitted as proof. If the Contractor fails to 
provide the safety items as mentioned above to the working personnel, the Contractor 
may apply to the Company (OIL) for providing the same. OIL will provide the safety 
items, if available. But in turn, OIL will recover the actual cost of the items by deducting 
from Contractor's Bill. However, it will be the Contractor's sole responsibility to ensure 
that the persons engaged by him in the mines use the proper PPE while at work. All the 
safety gears mentioned above are to be provided to the working personnel before 
commencement of the work. 
3. The Contractor shall prepare written Safe Operating Procedure (SOP) for the work 
to be carried out, including an assessment of risk, wherever possible and safe methods 
to deal with it/them.  
4. Keep an up to date SOP and provide a copy of changes to a person designated by 
the Mine Owner/Agent/Manager. 
5. Contractor has to ensure that all work is carried out in accordance with the 
Statute and SOP and for the purpose he may deploy adequate qualified and competent 
personnel for the purpose of carrying out the job in a safe manner. For work of a 
specified scope/nature, he should develop and provide to the mine owner a site-specific 
code of practice in line.  
6. It will be entirely the responsibility of the Contractor/his 
Supervisor/representative to ensure strict adherence to all HSE measures and statutory 
rules during operation in OIL's installations and safety of workers engaged by him. The 
crew members will not refuse to follow any instruction given by company's Installation 
Manager/Safety Officer /Engineer/Official/Supervisor/Junior Engineer for safe 
operation. 
7. Any compensation arising out of the job carried out by the Contractor whether 
related to pollution, Safety or Health will be paid by the contractor only. 
8. Any compensation arising due to accident of the Contractor's personnel while 
carrying out the job, will be payable by the contractor. 
9. The contractor shall have to report all incidents including near miss to 
Installation Manager/departmental representative of the concerned department of OIL. 

--- PAGE 204 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
Page 204 of 273 
10. The contractor has to keep a register of the persons employed by him/her. The 
contractor's supervisor shall take and maintain attendance of his men every day for the 
work, punctually. 
11. A contractor employee must, while at work, take reasonable care for the health 
and safety of people who are at the employee's place of work and who may be affected by 
the employee's act or omissions at work. 
12. A contractor employee must, while at work, cooperate with his or her employer or 
other persons so far as is necessary to enable compliance with any requirement under 
the act or the regulations that is imposed in the interest of health, safety and welfare of 
the employee or any other person. 
13. In case Contractor is found non-compliant of HSE laws as required company will 
have the right for directing the contractor to take action to comply with the 
requirements, and for further non-compliance, the contractor will be penalized 
prevailing relevant Acts/Rules/Regulations. 
14. When there is a significant risk to health, environment or safety of a person or 
place arising because of a non-compliance of HSE Measures Company will have the 
right to direct the contractor to cease work until the non-compliance is corrected. 
15. The contractor should frame a mutually agreed bridging document between OIL 
& the contractor with roles and responsibilities clearly defined. 
16. For any HSE matters not specified in the contract document, the contractor will 
abide the relevant and prevailing Acts/rules/regulations/pertaining to Health, Safety 
and Environment. 
 
 
 
 
 (Seal)                                                                       Yours Faithfully 
 
 
 
Date____________                                                                      
M/s___________________________________  
FOR & ON BEHALF OF CONTRACTOR 

--- PAGE 205 ---
 
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22                                         
Page 205 of 273 
 
PART-V 
INTEGRITY PACT 
 
Between 
 
Oil India Limited (OIL) hereinafter referred to as "The Principal"  
  
And 
(Name of the bidder)......................................................hereinafter referred to as "The 
Bidder/Contractor"  
 
Preamble:  
 
The Principal intends to award, under laid down organizational procedures, 
contract/s for IFB No. CDH7317P22 for ‘Implementation of initiative-HSSE 
Incident Reporting and Tracking Application for four (04) years and six (06) 
months and extendable by one (01) year under the Digitization Project 
(DRIVE)’. The Principal values full compliance with all relevant laws and 
regulations, and the principles of economic use of resources, and of fairness and 
transparency in its relations with its Bidder/s and Contractor/s.  
 
In order to achieve these goals, the Principal cooperates with the renowned international 
Non-Governmental Organization "Transparency International" (TI). Following TI's 
national and international experience, the Principal will appoint an external 
independent Monitor who will monitor the tender process and the execution of the 
contract for compliance with the principles mentioned above.  
 
Section: 1 - Commitments of the Principal  
 
(1) The Principal commits itself to take all measures necessary to prevent corruption 
and to observe the following principles: 
 
1. No employee of the Principal, personally or through family members, will in 
connection with the tender for, or the execution of a contract, demand, take a 
promise for or accept, for him/herself or third person, any material or immaterial 
benefit which he/she is not legally entitled to. 
  
2. The Principal will, during the tender process treat all Bidders with equity and 
reason. The Principal will in particular, before and during the tender process, 
provide to all Bidders the same information and will not provide to any Bidder 
confidential/additional information through which the Bidder could obtain an 
advantage in relation to the tender process or the contract execution.  
 
3. The Principal will exclude from the process all known prejudiced persons.  
 
(2) If the Principal obtains information on the conduct of any of its employees which is a 
criminal offence under the relevant Anti-Corruption Laws of India, or if there be a Page 
2 of 6 substantive suspicion in this regard, the Principal will inform its Vigilance Office 
and in addition can initiate disciplinary actions.  

--- PAGE 206 ---
 
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22                                         
Page 206 of 273 
Section: 2 - Commitments of the Bidder/Contractor  
 
(1) The Bidder/Contractor commits itself to take all measures necessary to prevent 
corruption. He commits himself to observe the following principles during his 
participation in the tender process and during the contract execution.  
 
1. The Bidder/Contractor will not, directly or through any other person or firm, 
offer, promise or give to any of the Principal's employees involved in the tender 
process or the execution of the contract or to any third person any material or 
immaterial benefit which h e/she is not legally entitled to, in order to obtain in 
exchange any advantage of any kind whatsoever during the tender process or 
during the execution of the contract.  
 
2. The Bidder/Contractor will not enter with other Bidders into any undisclosed 
agreement or understanding, whether formal or informal. This applies in 
particular to prices, specifications, certifications, Subsidiary contracts, 
submission or non-submission of bids or any other actions to restrict 
competitiveness or to introduce cartelization in the bidding process.  
 
3. The Bidder/Contractor will not commit any offence under the relevant 
Anticorruption Laws of India; further the Bidder/Contractor will not use 
improperly, for purposes of competition or personal gain, or pass on to others, 
any information or document provided by the Principal as part of the business 
relationship, regarding plans, technical proposals and business details, including 
information contained or transmitted electronically.  
 
4. The Bidder/Contractor will, when presenting his bid, disclose any and all 
payments he has made, is committed to or intends to make to agents, brokers or 
any other intermediaries in connection with the award of the contract.  
 
(2) The Bidder/Contractor will not instigate third persons to commit offences outlined 
above or be an accessory to such offences.  
 
(3) The Bidder/Contractor signing Integrity Pact shall not approach the Courts while 
representing the matters to IEMs and he/she will await their decision in the matter. 
 
Section 3 - Disqualification from tender process and exclusion from future 
Contracts  
 
If the Bidder, before contract award has committed a transgression through a violation 
of Section 2 or in any other form such as to put his reliability or risibility as Bidder into 
question, the Principal is entitled to disqualify the Bidder from the tender process or to 
terminate the contract, if already signed, for such reason.  
 
1. If the Bidder/Contractor has committed a transgression through a violation of 
Section 2 such as to put his reliability or credibility into question, the Principal is 
entitled also to exclude the Bidder/Contractor from future contract award processes. 
The imposition and duration of the exclusion will be determined by the severity of the 
transgression. The severity will be determined by the circumstances of the case, in 
particular the number of transgressions, the position of the transgressions within the 

--- PAGE 207 ---
 
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22                                         
Page 207 of 273 
company hierarchy of the Bidder and the amount of the damage. The exclusion will be 
imposed for a minimum of 6 months and maximum of 3 years.  
 
2. The Bidder accepts and undertakes to respect and uphold the Principal's Absolute 
right to resort to and impose such exclusion and further accepts and undertakes not to 
challenge or question such exclusion on any ground, including the lack of any hearing 
before the decision to resort to such exclusion is taken. This undertaking is given freely 
and after obtaining independent legal advice.  
 
 3. If the Bidder/Contractor can prove that he has restored/recouped the Damage 
caused by him and has installed a suitable corruption prevention system, the Principal 
may revoke the exclusion prematurely.  
 
4. A transgression is considered to have occurred if in light of available evidence no 
reasonable doubt is possible.  
 
5. Integrity Pact, in respect of a particular contract, shall be operative from the date 
Integrity Pact is signed by both the parties till the final completion of the contract or as 
mentioned in Section 9 - Pact Duration whichever is later. Any violation of the same 
would entail disqualification of the bidders and exclusion from future business dealings 
 
Section 4 - Compensation for Damages  
 
1. If the Principal has disqualified the Bidder from the tender process prior to the 
award according to Section 3, the Principal is entitled to demand and recover 
from the Bidder liquidated damages equivalent to Earnest Money Deposit/Bid 
Security. 
 
2. If the Principal has terminated the contract according to Section 3, or if the Principal 
is entitled to terminate the contract according to Section 3, the principal shall be 
entitled to demand and recover from the Contractor liquidated damages equivalent to 
Security Deposit/Performance Bank Guarantee. 
 
3. The bidder agrees and undertakes to pay the said amounts without protest or demur 
subject only to condition that if the Bidder/Contractor can prove and establish that the 
exclusion of the Bidder from the tender process or the termination of the contract after 
the contract award has caused no damage or less damage than the amount or the 
liquidated damages, the Bidder/Contractor shall compensate the Principal only to the 
extent of the damage in the amount proved.  
 
Section 5 - Previous transgression  
 
1. The Bidder declares that no previous transgression occurred in the last 3 years with 
any other Company in any country conforming to the TI approach or with any other 
Public Sector Enterprise in India that could justify his exclusion from the tender 
process.  
 
2. If the Bidder makes incorrect statement on this subject, he can be disqualified from 
the tender process or the contract, if already awarded, can be terminated for such 
reason.  

--- PAGE 208 ---
 
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22                                         
Page 208 of 273 
 
Section: 6 - Equal treatment of all Bidders/Contractor/Subcontractors  
 
1. The Principal will enter into Pacts on identical terms with all bidders and contractors. 
 
2. The Bidder/Contractor undertake(s) to procure from all subcontractors a 
commitment in conformity with this Integrity Pact. The Bidder/Contractor shall be 
responsible for any violation(s) of the provisions laid down in this agreement/Pact by 
any of its sub-contractors/sub-vendors. 
 
3. The Principal will disqualify from the tender process all bidders who do not sign this 
Pact or violate its provisions.  
 
Section: 7 - Criminal charges against violating Bidders/Contractors/ 
Subcontractors  
 
If the Principal obtains knowledge of conduct of a Bidder, Contractor or Subcontractor, 
or of an employee or a representative or an associate of a Bidder, Contractor or 
Subcontractor, which constitutes corruption, or if the Principal has substantive 
suspicion in this regard, the Principal will inform the Vigilance Office.  
 
Section: 8 - External Independent Monitor/Monitors  
 
1. The Principal appoints competent and credible external independent Monitor for this 
Pact. The task of the Monitor is to review independently and objectively, whether and to 
what extent the parties comply with the obligations under this agreement.  
 
2. The Monitor is not subject to instructions by the representatives of the parties and 
performs his functions neutrally and independently. He reports to the Chairperson of 
the Board of the Principal.  
 
3. The Contractor accepts that the Monitor has the right to access without restriction to 
all Project documentation of the Principal including that provided by the Contractor. 
The Contractor will also grant the Monitor, upon his request and demonstration of a 
valid interest, unrestricted and unconditional access to his project documentation. The 
same is applicable to Subcontractors. The Monitor is under contractual obligation to 
treat the information and documents of the Bidder/Contractor/Subcontractor with 
confidentiality.  
 
4. The Principal will provide to the Monitor sufficient information about all meetings 
among the parties related to the Project provided such meetings could have an impact 
on the contractual relations between the Principal and the Contractor. The parties offer 
to the Monitor the option to participate in such meetings.  
 
5. As soon as the Monitor notices, or believes to notice, a violation of this agreement, he 
will so inform the Management of the Principal and request the Management to 
discontinue or heal the violation, or to take other relevant action. The monitor can in 
this regard submit non-binding recommendations. Beyond this, the Monitor has no 
right to demand from the parties that they act in a specific manner, refrain from action 
or tolerate action. However, the Independent External Monitor shall give an opportunity 

--- PAGE 209 ---
 
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22                                         
Page 209 of 273 
to the bidder/contractor to present its case before making its recommendations to the 
Principal. 
 
6. The Monitor will submit a written report to the Chairperson of the Board of the 
Principal within 8 to 10 weeks from the date of reference or intimation to him by the 
'Principal' and, should the occasion arise, submit proposals for correcting problematic 
situations.  
 
7.  If the Monitor has reported to the Chairperson of the Board a Substantiated 
suspicion of an offence under relevant Anti-Corruption Laws of India, and the 
Chairperson has not, within reasonable time, taken visible action to proceed against 
such offence or reported it to the Vigilance Office, the Monitor may also transmit this 
information directly to the Central Vigilance Commissioner, Government of India.  
 
8. The word 'Monitor' would include both singular and plural.  
 
Section: 9 - Pact Duration  
 
This Pact begins when both parties have legally signed it. It expires for the Contractor 
12 months after the last payment under the respective contract, and for all other 
Bidders 6 months after the contract has been awarded.  
 
If any claim is made/lodged during this time, the same shall be binding and continue to 
be valid despite the lapse of this pact as specified above, unless it is 
discharged/determined by Chairperson of the Principal.  
 
Section: 10 - Other provisions  
 
1. This agreement is subject to Indian Law. Place of performance and jurisdiction is the 
Registered Office of the Principal, i.e. New Delhi. The Arbitration clause provided in the 
main tender document/contract shall not be applicable for any issue/dispute arising 
under Integrity Pact. 
 
2. Changes and supplements as well as termination notices need to be made in writing. 
Side agreements have not been made.  
 
3. If the Contractor is a partnership or a consortium, this agreement must be, signed by 
all partners or consortium members.  
 
4. Should one or several provisions of this agreement turn out to be invalid, the 
remainder of this agreement remains valid. In this case, the parties will strive to come to 
an agreement to their original intensions.  
 
…………………………………..   …………………………………... 
For the Principal  For the Bidder/Contractor 
 
Witness 1: .............................  
Witness 2: .............................  
Place.  
Date .  

--- PAGE 210 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 210 of 273 
 
 
LIST OF PROFORMAS 
Sl. No PROFORMA NOS DESCRIPTION 
1 PROFORMA I Bid form 
2 PROFORMA-II 
 
Statement of non-compliance (if any) 
 
3 PROFORMA-III 
 
Proforma letter of authorisation for attending  
bid opening 
 
4 PROFORMA-IV 
 
Proforma letter of authority 
 
5 PROFORMA-V 
 
Bid security declaration 
 
6 PROFORMA-VI 
 
To be filled-up/submitted by the vendor on its 
letter head for  
E-remittance] 
 
7 PROFORMA-VII 
 
Form of performance bank guarantee 
 
8 PROFORMA-VIII 
 
Agreement form 
 
9 PROFORMA-IX 
 
Format of undertaking by bidders towards 
submission of authentic information/documents 
(to be typed on the letter head of the bidder) 
 
10 PROFORMA-X 
 
Certificate of compliance to financial criteria  
 
11 PROFORMA-XI 
 
Proforma of bank guarantee towards purchase 
preference-local content 
 
12 PROFORMA-XII 
 
Commercial check list 
 
13 PROFORMA-XIII 
 
Undertaking towards submission of performance 
bank guarantee 

--- PAGE 211 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 211 of 273 
 
 
14 PROFORMA-XIV 
 
Proforma for undertaking from third party 
inspection agency 
 
15 PROFORMA-XV 
 
Certificate of annual turnover & net worth 
 
16 PROFORMA-XVI 
 
Format of agreement between bidder and their 
parent company/100% subsidiary company 
17 PROFORMA-XVII 
 
Parent company/subsidiary company guarantee 
 
18 PROFORMA-XVIII 
 
Form of performance bank guarantee for  
ultimate parent/supporting company 
 
19 PROFORMA-XIX 
 
Undertaking of key personnel of the Technical 
collaborator/Subsidiary/Parent company/Joint 
Venture Partner experience 
20 PROFORMA-XX 
 
Parent/ultimate parent/holding company’s 
corporate guarantee towards financial standing 
 
21 PROFORMA-XXI 
 
Curriculum Vitae (CV) Format of Project  
Manager and Technology Architect 
 
22 PROFORMA-XXII 
 
Certificate of Compliance of meeting Bid Reject 
Criteria  
 
23 PROFORMA-XXIII 
 
Declaration of Compliance of meeting Bid Reject 
Criteria  
 
24 EXHIBIT–I  
 
Undertaking for works involving possibility of 
sub-contracting 
 
25 EXHIBIT–II  
 
Undertaking towards compliance of clause no. 
 8.1 of the forwarding letter 
 
 

--- PAGE 212 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 212 of 273 
 
                                                                                                   PROFORMA I                                      
  BID FORM                                           
To 
M/s Oil India Limited, 
P.O. Duliajan, Assam, India 
 
Sub:  IFB No.CDH7317P22 
 
Gentlemen, 
 
Having examined the General and Special Conditions of Contract and the Terms of 
Reference including all attachments thereto, the receipt of which is hereby duly 
acknowledged, we the undersigned offer to perform the work/services in conformity 
with the said conditions of Contract and Terms of Reference for the sum quoted in 
the Price Bid Format or such other sums as may be ascertained in accordance with 
the Schedule of Prices attached herewith and made part of this Bid. 
 
We undertake, if our Bid is accepted, to commence the work as per the terms & 
conditions set out in the subject tender. 
 
If our Bid is accepted, we will submit the Performance Security Deposit as specified 
in the tender document for the due performance of the Contract. 
 
We agree to abide by this Bid for a period of 120 days from the original date of Bid 
closing and it shall remain binding upon us and may be accepted at any time before 
the expiration of that period. 
 
Until a formal Contract is prepared and executed, this Bid, together with your written 
acceptance thereof in your notification of award shall constitute a binding Contract 
between us. 
 
We understand that you are not bound to accept the lowest or any Bid you may 
receive. 
 
Dated this _____________ day of __________________ 2021/22. 
 
 
Authorised Person’s Signature: _________________                                                                                                          
 
Name: _______________________________ 
 
Designation: _________________________ 
 
Seal of the Bidder:  
 
 
 

--- PAGE 213 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 213 of 273 
 
PROFORMA-II 
 
 
STATEMENT OF NON-COMPLIANCE (IF ANY) 
 
 
(Only exceptions/deviations to be rendered) 
 
 
1.0 The Bidder shall furnish detailed statement of exceptions/deviations, if any, 
to the IFB stipulations, terms and conditions in respect of each Section of Bid 
Document in the following format:  
 
Section 
No. 
Clause No. 
(Page No.) 
Non-Compliance Remarks 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
Signature of Bidder: __________________________  
 
Name: ______________________________________  
 
 
 
 
NOTE:    OIL INDIA LIMITED expects the bidders to fully accept the terms and 
conditions of the bid document. However, should the bidders still envisage some 
exceptions/deviations to the terms and conditions of the bid document, the same 
should be indicated as per above format and submit along with their bids. If the 
“Statement of Non-Compliance” in the above Proforma is left blank (or not 
submitted along with the Bid), then it would be constructed that the bidder has not 
taken any exception/deviation to the IFB requirements. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 214 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 214 of 273 
 
PROFORMA-III 
 
PROFORMA LETTER OF AUTHORISATION FOR ATTENDING BID OPENING 
 
TO 
GM- CONTRACTS  
OIL INDIA LIMITED 
P.O. DULIAJAN-786602  
Assam, India  
 
Sir,  
 
SUB: OIL's IFB No. CDH7317P22  
 
 
I/We ____________________________ confirm that Mr. ________________ (Name 
and address) as authorised to represent us during bid opening on our behalf 
with you against IFB No. CDH7317P22 for ‘Implementation of initiative-
HSSE Incident Reporting and Tracking Application for four (04) years and 
six (06) months and extendable by one (01) year under the Digitization 
Project (DRIVE).’ 
 
 
Yours Faithfully,  
 
 
Authorised Person’s Signature: _________________  
 
Name: ______________________________________  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 215 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 215 of 273 
 
PROFORMA-IV 
 
PROFORMA LETTER OF AUTHORITY 
 
 
TO 
GM-CONTRACTS  
Contracts Department 
P.O. DULIAJAN PIN-786602 
Dist. Dibrugarh, Assam 
India 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
SUB: OIL’s IFB No. CDH7317P22 
 
We_______________________________of_______________________________________ 
Confirm that Mr. ___________________________________________________________ 
__________________ (Name and Address) is authorised to represent us to Bid, 
negotiate and conclude the agreement on our behalf with you against IFB No. 
CDH7317P22 for ‘Implementation of initiative-HSSE Incident Reporting 
and Tracking Application for four (04) years and six (06) months and 
extendable by one (01) year under the Digitization Project (DRIVE)’ for any 
commercial/Legal purpose etc. 
 
We confirm that we shall be bound by all and whatsoever our said 
representative shall commit. 
 
 
 
Authorised Person’s Signature: _________________  
 
Name: ______________________________________  
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
Signature: _________________________ 
 
Name & Designation _________________ 
 
For & on behalf of ____________________ 
 
NOTE:   This letter of authority shall be on printed letter head of the bidder, and shall be signed 
by a person competent and having the power of attorney (Power of 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 216 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 216 of 273 
 
PROFORMA-V 
 
BID SECURITY DECLARATION 
                                    (to be submitted on Bidder’s letter head) 
 
 
To, 
Oil India Limited  
Contracts Department  
Duliajan, Assam - 786602 
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
I/We, the undersigned, declare that: 
 
1.0  I/We understand that, according to your Tender conditions, bids must be 
supported by a ‘Bid Security’ in the form of a ‘Bid-Securing Declaration’. 
 
2.0  I/We the undersigned hereby declare that if we withdraw or modify our Bids 
during the period of its validity, or if we are awarded the contract and fail to 
sign the contract, or we fail to submit performance security before the deadline 
defined in the Tender document; we will be suspended for the period of two 
years. This suspension of two years shall be automatic without conducting 
any enquiry. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name and Signature of 
Authorized Signatory and Company Seal 
 
 

--- PAGE 217 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 217 of 273 
 
PROFORMA-VI 
 
[TO BE FILLED-UP/SUBMITTED BY THE VENDOR ON ITS LETTER HEAD FOR  
E-REMITTANCE] 
 
Name: 
 
FULL Address: 
 
 
Phone Number: 
Mobile Number: 
E-mail address: 
Fax Number: 
Bank Account Number (in which the Bidder wants remittance against invoices): 
Bank Name: 
Branch: 
Address of the Bank: 
Bank Code: 
IFSC/RTGS Code of the Bank: 
NEFT Code of the Bank: 
PAN Number: 
GST Registration Number:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                        ___________________________________ 
Signature of Bidder with Official Seal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 218 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 218 of 273 
 
PROFORMA-VII 
 
FORM OF PERFORMANCE BANK GUARANTEE 
 
(TO BE FURNISHED BY THE CONTRACTOR IN CASE OF SUBMITTING 
PERFORMANCE SECURITY IN THE FORM OF BANK GUARANTEE AFTER ISSUE 
OF LOA) 
 
To  
M/s OIL INDIA LIMITED, 
CONTRACTS DEPARTMENT 
DULIAJAN, ASSAM, INDIA, PIN-786602 
 
 
WHEREAS ______________________________________ (Name and address of Contractor) 
(hereinafter called "Contractor") had undertaken, in pursuance of Contract No. 
_______________________ to execute ______________________ (Brief Description of the 
Work) (hereinafter called "the Contract"). 
 
AND WHEREAS it has been stipulated by you in the said Contract that the 
Contractor shall furnish you with a Bank Guarantee as security for compliance with 
Contractor's obligations in accordance with the Contract. 
 
AND WHEREAS we have agreed to give the Contractor such a  Bank Guarantee; NOW 
THEREFORE we hereby affirm that we are Guarantors on behalf of the Contractor, 
up to a total of (Amount of Guarantee in figures) _____________ (in words 
___________________),  such amount being payable in the types and proportions of 
currencies in which the Contract price is payable, and we undertake to pay you, 
upon your first  written demand and without cavil or argument, any sum or sums 
within  the limits of guarantee sum as aforesaid without your needing to prove or to 
show grounds or  reasons  for  your demand for the sum specified therein. We hereby 
waive the necessity of your demanding the said debt from the Contractor before 
presenting us with the demand. 
 
We further agree that no change or addition to or other modification of the terms of 
the Contract or the work to be performed there under or of any of the Contract 
documents which may be made between you and the Contractor shall in any way 
cease us from any liability under this guarantee, and we hereby waive notice of such 
change, addition or modification. 
                  
This guarantee is valid until the ___________________day of ___________________. 
 
The details of the Issuing Bank and Controlling Bank are as under: 
 
A. Issuing Bank: 
 BANK FAX NO: 

--- PAGE 219 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 219 of 273 
 
 BANK EMAIL ID: 
 BANK TELEPHONE NO: 
 IFSC CODE OF THE BANK: 
 
B. Controlling Office: 
 
 Address of the Controlling Office of the BG issuing Bank: 
    
Name of the Contact Person at the Controlling Office with Mobile No. and e-mail 
address: 
 
SIGNATURE AND SEAL OF THE GUARANTORS _____________________ 
Designation ____________________________________  
                                                                                                                              
                                                                    
Name of Bank ___________________________________ 
Address ________________________________________ 
 
Witness  _______________ 
Address ________________ 
              ________________ 
Date:  _____________                                      
Place: _____________ 
 
Note:  
 
The Bank Guarantee issuing bank branch shall ensure the following: 
 
a. The Bank Guarantee issued by the Bank must be routed through SFMS 
platform as per following details: 
 
(i) MT 760/MT 760 COV for issuance of Bank Guarantee 
(ii) MT 760/MT 767 COV for amendment of Bank Guarantee 
 
The above message/intimation shall be sent through SFMS (indicating the 
Contract No.) by the BG issuing Bank branch to HDFC Bank, Duliajan 
Branch, IFS Code – HDFC0002118; SWIFT Code - HDFCINBBCAL. Branch 
Address: HDFC Bank Limited, Duliajan Branch, Utopia Complex, BOC Gate, 
Jayanagar, Duliajan, Dibrugarh, PIN – 786602. 
 
b. Bank Guarantee issued by a Scheduled Bank in India at the request of some 
other Non-Scheduled Bank of India shall not be acceptable. 

--- PAGE 220 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 220 of 273 
 
PROFORMA-VIII  
 
AGREEMENT FORM 
 
 
This Agreement is made on ____ day of ___________________ between Oil India Limited, 
a Government of India Enterprise, incorporated under the Companies Act 1956, 
having its registered office at Duliajan in the State of Assam, hereinafter called the 
"Company” which expression unless repugnant to the context shall include 
executors, administrators and assignees on the one part, and M/s. ______________ 
(Name and address of Contractor) hereinafter called the "Contractor” which 
expression unless repugnant to the context shall include executors, administrators 
and assignees on the other part,  
 
WHEREAS the Company desires that Services ________________________ (brief 
description of services) should be provided by the Contractor as detailed hereinafter 
or as Company may requires;  
 
WHEREAS, Contractor engaged themselves in the business of offering such services 
represents that they have adequate resources and equipment, material etc. in good 
working order and fully trained personnel capable of efficiently undertaking the 
operations and is ready, willing and able to carry out the said services for the 
Company as per Section-II attached herewith for this purpose and  
 
WHEREAS, Company had issued a firm Letter of Award No. ________________ dated 
___________ based on Offer No. ____________ dated ____________ submitted by the 
Contractor against Company's IFB No. __________ and the Contractor accepted the 
same vide Letter No. _______________ dated ___________.  
 
WHEREAS, the Contractor has furnished to Company the performance security in 
the form of DD/BC/BG for Rs. ___________ (being 3% of Annualized Contract value) 
with validity of 90 (Ninety) days beyond the contract period. 
 
All these aforesaid documents shall be deemed to form and be read and construed 
as part of this agreement/contract. However, should there be any dispute arising out 
of interpretation of this contract in regard to the terms and conditions with those 
mentioned in Company’s tender document and subsequent letters including the 
Letter of Intent and Contractor's offer and their subsequent letters, the terms and 
conditions attached hereto shall prevail. Changes, additions or deletions to the terms 
of the contract shall be authorized solely by an amendment to the contract executed 
in the same manner as this contract.  
 
NOW WHEREAS, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements 
hereinafter contained, it is hereby agreed as follows –  
 
1. In this Agreement words and expressions shall have the same meanings as are 
respectively assigned to them in the Conditions of Contract referred to.  

--- PAGE 221 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 221 of 273 
 
 
2. In addition to documents herein above, the following Sections and Annexures 
attached herewith shall be deemed to form and be read and construed as part of this 
agreement viz.:  
(a) PART-I indicating the General Conditions of this Contract;  
(b) PART-II indicating the Schedule of work, unit, quantities & rates;  
(c) PART-III indicating the Special Conditions of Contract;  
(d) PART-V indicating the Safety Measures.  
 
3. In consideration of the payments to be made by the Company to the Contractor as 
hereinafter mentioned, the Contractor hereby covenants with the Company to 
provide the Services and to remedy defects therein in conformity in all respect with 
the provisions of this Contract.  
 
4. The Company hereby covenants to pay the Contractor in consideration of the 
provision of the Services and the remedying of defects therein, the Contract Price or 
such other sum as may become payable under the provisions of this Contract at the 
times and in the manner prescribed by this Contract.  
 
IN WITNESS thereof, each party has executed this contract at Duliajan, Assam as of 
the date shown above.  
 
Signed, Sealed and Delivered,  
 
 
 
For and on behalf of     for and on behalf of Contractor  
Company (Oil India Limited)    (M/s. ________________________)  
 
Name:       Name:  
 
Status:       Status:  
 
In presence of      In presence of  
 
1.        1.  
 
2.        2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 222 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 222 of 273 
 
PROFORMA-IX  
 
Format of undertaking by Bidders towards submission of authentic 
information/documents (To be typed on the letter head of the bidder) 
 
 
Ref. No____________                 Date ________ 
 
Sub: Undertaking of authenticity of information/documents submitted 
Ref: Your Tender No.CDH7317P22 
 
To, 
The GM-Contracts  
Contracts Department,  
OIL, Duliajan 
 
Sir, 
 
With reference to our quotation against your above-referred tender, we hereby 
undertake that no fraudulent information/documents have been submitted by us. 
 
We take full responsibility for the submission of authentic information/documents 
against the above cited bid. 
 
We also agree that, during any stage of the tender/contract agreement, in case any 
of the information/documents submitted by us are found to be false/forged/ 
fraudulent, OIL has right to reject our bid at any stage including forfeiture of our 
EMD and/or PBG and/or cancel the award of contract and/or carry out any other 
penal action on us, as deemed fit. 
 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
For (type name of the firm here) 
 
Signature of Authorized Signatory 
Name : 
Designation : 
Phone No. 
Place : 
Date : 
(Affix Seal of the Organization here, if applicable) 
 

--- PAGE 223 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 223 of 273 
 
PROFORMA-X  
 
(TO BE EXECUTED BY THE AUTHORIZED SIGNATORY OF THE BIDDER ON THE 
OFFICIAL LETTER HEAD OF THE BIDDER) 
 
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE TO FINANCIAL CRITERIA  
 
Ref : Note ‘b.’ under Clause 1.1 Financial Criteria of BEC/BRC of 
Tender No. CDH7317P22 
 
 
I ________________________________________ the authorized signatory(s) of 
____________________________________ (Company or Firm name with address) do 
hereby solemnly affirm and declare/ undertake as under: 
 
The balance sheet/Financial Statements for the financial year ______________ 
have actually not been audited as on the Original Bid Closing Date. 
 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
For (type name of the firm here) 
 
 
Signature of Authorized Signatory 
Name: 
Designation: 
Phone No. 
Place: 
Date: 
(Affix Seal of the Organization here, if applicable) 
 
 
 
 
Note: This certificate is to be issued only considering the time required for 
preparation of Financial Statements i.e. if the last date of preceding 
financial/accounting year falls within the preceding six months reckoned from the 
Original Bid Closing Date. 

--- PAGE 224 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 224 of 273 
 
PROFORMA - XI 
 
PROFORMA OF BANK GUARANTEE TOWARDS PURCHASE PREFERENCE-
LOCAL CONTENT 
 
 
Ref. No. __________ Bank Guarantee No. ________________ dated _____________ 
 
To 
Oil India Limited 
 
 
India Dear Sirs, 
 
1. In consideration of __________ (hereinafter referred to as OIL, which expression 
shall, unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof, include all its 
successors, administrators, executors and assignees) having entered into a 
Contract  No. ________ dated ____________ (hereinafter called ‘the CONTRACT’ 
which expression shall include all the amendments thereto) with                M/s 
____________ having its registered/head office at                     (hereinafter 
referred to as the ‘CONTRACTOR’) which expression shall, unless repugnant to 
the context or meaning thereof include all its successors, administrators, 
executors and assignees) and OIL having agreed that the CONTRACTOR shall 
furnish to OIL a Bank guarantee for India Rupees __________ for the faithful   
fulfilment of conditions pertaining to Local Content in accordance with the 
value mentioned in the certificate of Local Content submitted by the contractor 
for claiming purchase preference under the Purchase Preference Policy (linked 
with Local Content). 
 
2. We  (name  of the bank)           registered under the laws of        
having head/registered office  at         (hereinafter referred to as “the 
Bank”, which expression shall, unless repugnant to the context or meaning 
thereof, include all its successors, administrators, executors and permitted 
assignees) do hereby guarantee and undertake to pay to OIL immediately on 
first demand in writing any/all money to the extent of Indian Rs. (in figures) 
      (Indian Rupees (in words)   ) without any demur, reservation, 
contest or protest and/or without any reference to the CONTRACTOR. Any such 
demand made by OIL on the Bank by serving a written notice shall be 
conclusive and binding, without any proof, on the bank as regards the amount 
due and payable, notwithstanding any dispute(s) pending before any Court, 
Tribunal, Arbitrator or any other authority and/or any other matter or thin 
whatsoever, as liability under these presents being absolute and unequivocal. 

--- PAGE 225 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 225 of 273 
 
We agree that the guarantee herein contained shall be irrevocable and shall 
continue to be enforceable until it is discharged by OIL in writing. This 
guarantee shall not be determined, discharged or affected by the liquidation, 
winding up, dissolution or insolvency of the CONTRACTOR and shall remain 
valid, binding and operating against the bank. 
 
 
3. The Bank also agrees that OIL at its option shall be entitled to enforce this 
Guarantee against the Bank as a principal debtor, in the first instance, without 
proceeding against the CONTRACTOR and notwithstanding any security or 
other guarantee that OIL may have in relation to the CONTRACTOR’s liabilities. 
 
4. The Bank further agrees the OIL shall have the fullest liberty without our 
consent and without affecting in any manner our obligations hereunder to vary 
any of the terms and conditions of the said CONTRACT or to extend time of 
performance by the said CONTRACTOR(s) from time to time or to postpone for 
any time or from time to time exercise of any of the powers vested in OIL against 
the said CONTRACTOR(s) and to forbear or enforce any of the terms and 
conditions relating to the said agreement and we shall not be relived from our 
liability by reason of any such variation, or extension being granted to the said 
CONTRACTOR(s) or for any forbearance, act or omission on the part of  OIL  or 
any indulgence by OIL to the  said  CONTRACTOR(s)  or  any such matter or  
thing whatsoever which under the law relating to sureties would, but for this 
provision, have effect of so relieving us. 
 
5. The Bank further agrees that the Guarantee herein contained shall remain in 
full force during the period that is taken for the performance of the CONTRACT 
and  all dues of OIL under or by virtue of this CONTRACT have been fully paid 
and its claim satisfied or discharged or till OIL discharges this guarantee in 
writing, whichever is earlier. 
 
6. This Guarantee shall not be discharged by any change in our constitution, in 
the constitution of OIL or that of the CONTRACTOR. 
 
7. The Bank confirms that this guarantee has been issued with observance of 
appropriate laws of the country of issue. 
 
8. The Bank also agrees that this guarantee shall be governed and construed in 
accordance with Indian Laws and subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of Indian 
Courts of the place from where the purchase CONTRACT has been placed. 
 
9. Notwithstanding anything contained herein above, out liability under this 
Guarantee is limited to Indian Rs. (in figures) ___________ (Indian Rupees (in 
words) _________________) and our guarantee shall remain in force until 
(indicate the date of expiry of bank guarantee). 

--- PAGE 226 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 226 of 273 
 
 
Any claim under this Guarantee must be received by us before the expiry of this 
Bank Guarantee. If no such claim has been received by us by the said date, the 
rights of OIL under this Guarantee will cease. However, if such a claim has been 
received by us within the said date, all the rights of OIL under this Guarantee 
shall be valid and shall not cease until we have satisfied that claim. 
 
 In witness whereof, the Bank through its authorized officer has set its hand and 
stamp on this ______________date of  20      at    
 
 
WITNESS NO. 1 
 
                                          
 
(Signature) (Signature) 
Full name and official address              Full name, designation and address  
(in legible letters)                                  (in legible letters) 
Stamp with Bank 
 
 
 
WITNESS NO. 2   
Attorney as power of Attorney no.    
Date:   
(Signature) 
Full name and official address (in legible letters) 
Stamp 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 227 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 227 of 273 
 
PROFORMA-XII 
 
COMMERCIAL CHECK LIST 
 
Bidder’s Name: _______________________________ 
 
TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
This Questionnaire duly filled in should be returned along with each copy of Un-
priced Bid. Clauses confirmed hereunder should not be repeated in the Bid.  
 
Sl. No. Description  Bidder’s Confirmation  
1. Bidding structure 
 
 
 
2. Bidder’s name and address: 
 
 
 
 
3. 
It is noted that deviations to Terms & 
Conditions shall lead to rejection of 
offer, as specified in the Tender.  
 
4. 
Ensure and confirm that prices 
quoted in ‘Schedule of Rates’, are for 
complete scope of work as defined in 
the tender  
 
5. Indicate SAC Code 
Indicate rate of GST applicable.  
SAC Code:  
GST ……………..%  
6. EMD Details: Whether Bid Securing 
Declaration submitted  
7. Confirm to Submit PBG as per 
Tender requirement  
8. 
Confirm that the offer shall remain 
valid for acceptance up to 90 (Ninety) 
days from original Bid Due 
Date/Date of opening of bids.  
 
9. 
Whether Mobilization and 
Completion period of contract is 
complied? 
 
10. Whether Integrity Pact Submitted (if 
applicable)?  
11. 
Confirm that quoted prices shall 
remain firm and fixed until 
completion of the contract, except as 
 

--- PAGE 228 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 228 of 273 
 
otherwise mentioned in the bid 
document.  
12. 
Confirm that you have submitted all 
documents as mentioned in the 
Tender/Annexures  
 
13. Confirm acceptance to all terms & 
conditions of the Tender.   
14. Confirm that all correspondence 
must be in English Language only.   
15. 
Indicate Name & Contact No. 
(Telephone/Fax/E-mail) of person 
signing the bid.  
Name:  
Contact No.:  
Fax:  
Email:  
16. 
Confirm that all Bank charges 
associated with Bidder’s Bank shall 
be borne by Bidder.  
 
17. 
Please indicate the following:  
(i) PAN No. 
(ii) GST Regn. No. 
 
 
 
Bidder confirms that in case of conflicting version of various terms & conditions at 
different places, the confirmation furnished as above shall be considered over-riding 
and final and any other deviation indicated elsewhere shall be treated as redundant.  
 
 
Signature __________________________  
 
Name ______________________________  
 
Designation ________________________  
 
Office Stamp ________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 229 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 229 of 273 
 
PROFORMA-XIII 
 
UNDERTAKING TOWARDS SUBMISSION OF PERFORMANCE BANK GUARANTEE 
 
To, 
Oil India Limited  
Contracts Department  
Duliajan, Assam - 786602 
 
We, M/s………………………………………………………………. are submitting the 
Performance Security in favour of Oil India Limited, Duliajan in the form of bank 
guarantee bearing Reference No. ……………………………………..for an amount of 
INR………………………………… valid up to ……………… as per terms and 
conditions of Tender/Contract No. ........................................................... 
 
BG issuing bank details:- 
 
 
Declaration: 
We have arranged to send the confirmation of issuance of the bank guarantee via 
SFMS portal through our bank using the details mentioned in the tender and 
hereby confirming the correctness of the details mentioned. 
 
 
Authorized Signature:  
Bank 
Branch IFS Code 
Contact Details 
E-mail Addresses 
Mobile 
Telephone  
Fax 
Correspondence Address 
H No/Street/City 
State  
Country  
Pin Code 

--- PAGE 230 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 230 of 273 
 
Name: ____________________________  
Vendor Code: _____________________  
Email ID: _________________________ 
Mobile No: ________________________  
   Encl: Original bank guarantee 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 231 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 231 of 273 
 
PROFORMA-XIV 
 
PROFORMA FOR UNDERTAKING FROM THIRD PARTY INSPECTION AGENCY 
(to be submitted on official letter head) 
 
TO 
M/s OIL INDIA LIMITED 
P.O. DULIAJAN-786602  
Assam, India  
 
Sir,  
 
SUB: OIL's IFB No. CDH7317P22 
 
 
M/s ____________________________ having registered office at 
_________________________ intend to participate in the above referred tender of OIL 
INDIA LIMITED. 
 
The tender conditions stipulates that the bidder shall submit documents pertaining 
to Bid Evaluation Criteria (BEC), duly verified and certified by designated 
independent Third Party Inspection Agency. 
 
In this regard this is to certify that copies of documents pertaining to Bid Evaluation 
Criteria (BEC) submitted to us by the bidder have been verified and certified by us 
with originals and found to be genuine and authentic. We have signed and stamped 
on the copies of all the verified and certified documents having ____ nos. pages.  
 
 
Note: In the event of any requirement, OIL reserves the right to ask the inspection 
agencies to verify the documents with source, if required at no extra cost to OIL. 
 
 
Thanking you,  
 
 
Authorised Person’s Signature: _________________  
 
Name: ______________________________________  
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 232 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 232 of 273 
 
PROFORMA-XV  
 
CERTIFICATE OF ANNUAL TURNOVER & NET WORTH 
 
TO BE ISSUED BY PRACTISING CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS’ FIRM ON THEIR 
LETTER HEAD 
 
 
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN 
 
 
       This is to certify that the following financial positions extracted from the audited 
financial statements of M/s .................................................................. (Name of 
the Bidder) for the last 03 (Three) completed accounting years up to 
………………………………. (as the case may be) are correct.   
 
YEAR TURN OVER 
In INR  
NET WORTH 
In INR  
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
                                       
 
Place: 
 
Date: 
 
 
Seal: 
 
 
Membership Number:                                                     Signature: 
 
Registration No.: 
 
UDIN: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 233 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 233 of 273 
 
PROFORMA-XVI 
 
FORMAT OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN BIDDER AND THEIR PARENT 
COMPANY/100% SUBSIDIARY COMPANY (As the case may be) 
(TO BE EXECUTED ON STAMP PAPER OF REQUISITE VALUE 
AND NOTARIZED) 
 
This agreement made this ___ day of ____ month ____ year by and between                
M/s ____________________ (Fill in the Bidder’s full name, constitution and registered 
office address) hereinafter referred to as bidder on the first part and M/s ___________  
(Fill in full name, constitution and registered office address of  Parent 
Company/Subsidiary Company, as the case may be) hereinafter referred to as 
“Parent Company/Subsidiary Company (Delete whichever not applicable)” of the 
other part: 
 
WHEREAS  
 
M/s Oil India Limited (hereinafter referred to as OIL) has invited offers vide their 
tender No. _____________ for  _________________ and M/s __________________(Bidder) 
intends to bid against the said tender and desires to have technical support of                          
M/s ________________[Parent Company/Subsidiary Company-(Delete whichever not 
applicable)] and whereas Parent Company/Subsidiary Company (Delete whichever 
not applicable) represents that they have gone through and understood the 
requirements of subject tender and are capable and committed to provide the 
services as required by the bidder for successful execution of the contract, if 
awarded to the bidder.   
Now, it is hereby agreed to by and between the parties as follows:  
 
1. M/s.____________(Bidder) will submit an offer to OIL for the full scope of work 
as envisaged in the tender document as a main bidder and liaise with OIL directly 
for any clarifications etc. in this context. 
 
2. M/s. _________ (Parent Company/Subsidiary Company (Delete whichever not 
applicable) undertakes to provide technical support and expertise, expert 
manpower and procurement assistance and project management to support the 
bidder to discharge its obligations as per the Scope of work of the tender/ Contract 
for which offer has been made by the Parent Company/Subsidiary Company (Delete 
whichever not applicable) and accepted by the bidder. 
 
3. This agreement will remain valid till validity of bidder’s offer to OIL including 
extension if any and till satisfactory performance of the contract in the event the 
contract is awarded by OIL to the bidder. 
 
4. It is further agreed that for the performance of work during contract period 
bidder and Parent Company/Subsidiary Company (Delete whichever not applicable) 
shall be jointly and severely responsible to OIL for satisfactory execution of the 
contract.   

--- PAGE 234 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 234 of 273 
 
5. However, the bidder shall have the overall responsibility of satisfactory 
execution of the contract awarded by OIL. 
In witness whereof the parties hereto have executed this agreement on the date 
mentioned above.  
  
For and on behalf of  
(Bidder)  
For and on behalf of 
(Parent Company/Subsidiary Company 
(Delete whichever not applicable) 
    
     M/s. M/s. 
     Witness: Witness: 
     1) 1)             
     2) 2) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 235 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 235 of 273 
 
PROFORMA-XVII 
 
PARENT COMPANY/SUBSIDIARY COMPANY GUARANTEE 
(Delete whichever not applicable) 
(TO BE EXECUTED ON STAMP PAPER OF REQUISITE VALUE 
AND NOTARIZED) 
DEED OF GUARANTEE 
 
THIS DEED OF GUARANTEE executed at ……….. this …….. day of ……… by M/s 
………………………… (mention complete name) a company duly organized and 
existing under the laws of …………………. (insert jurisdiction/country), having its 
Registered Office at ……………………………………… hereinafter called “the 
Guarantor” which expression shall, unless excluded by or repugnant to the subject 
or context thereof, be deemed to include its successors and permitted assigns.  
 
WHEREAS 
M/s Oil India Limited, a company duly registered under the Companies Act 1956, 
having its Registered Office at Duliajan in the State of Assam, India, hereinafter 
called “OIL” which expression shall unless excluded by or repugnant to the context 
thereof, be deemed to include its successor and assigns, invited tender number 
………………… for …….. on ………….. M/s ………………….. (mention complete 
name), a company duly organized and existing under the laws of ……………. (insert 
jurisdiction/country), having its Registered Office at …………………….. (give 
complete address) hereinafter called “the Company” which expression shall, unless 
excluded by  or repugnant to the subject or context thereof, be deemed to include 
its successor and permitted assigns, have, in response to the above mentioned 
tender invited by OIL, submitted their bid number …………………… to OIL with one 
of the condition that the Company shall arrange a guarantee from its parent 
company guaranteeing due and satisfactory performance of the work covered under 
the said tender including any change therein as may be deemed appropriate by OIL 
at any stage.  
The Guarantor represents that they have gone through and understood the 
requirement of the above said tender and are capable of and committed to provide 
technical and such other supports as may be required by the Company for 
successful execution of the same.  
 
The Company and the Guarantor have entered into an agreement dated …….. as 
per which the Guarantor shall be providing technical and such other supports as 
may be necessary for performance of the work relating to the said tender.  
Accordingly, at the request of the Company and in consideration of and as a 
requirement for OIL to enter into agreement(s) with the Company, the Guarantor 
hereby agrees to give this guarantee and undertakes as follows: 
 
1. The Guarantor (Parent Company/100% Subsidiary Company (Delete 
whichever not applicable) unconditionally agrees that in case of non-performance 
by the Company of any of its obligations in any respect, the Guarantor shall, 
immediately on receipt of notice of demand by OIL, take up the job without any 

--- PAGE 236 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 236 of 273 
 
demur or objection, in continuation and without loss of time and without any cost 
to OIL and duly perform the obligations of the Company to the satisfaction of OIL.  
2. The Guarantor agrees that the Guarantee herein contained shall remain valid 
and enforceable till the satisfactory execution and completion of the work (including 
discharge of the warranty obligations) awarded to the Company. 
3. The Guarantor shall be jointly with the Company as also severally responsible 
for satisfactory performance of the contract entered between the Company and OIL.  
4. The liability of the Guarantor, under the Guarantee, is limited to the 50% of 
the annualized contract price entered between the Company and OIL. This will, 
however, be in addition to the forfeiture of the Performance Guarantee furnished by 
the Company. 
5. The Guarantor represents that this Guarantee has been issued after due 
observance of the appropriate laws in force in India. The Guarantor hereby 
undertakes that the Guarantor shall obtain and maintain in full force and effect all 
the governmental and other approvals and consents that are necessary and do all 
other acts and things necessary or desirable in connection therewith or for the due 
performance of the Guarantor’s obligations hereunder.  
6. The Guarantor also agrees that this Guarantee shall be governed and 
construed in accordance with the laws in force in India and subject to the exclusive 
jurisdiction of the courts of ……….., India.  
7. The Guarantor hereby declares and represents that this Guarantee has been 
given without any undue influence or coercion, and that the Guarantor has fully 
understood the implications of the same.  
8. The Guarantor represents and confirms that the Guarantor has the legal 
capacity, power and authority to issue this Guarantee and that giving of this 
Guarantee and the performance and observations of the obligations hereunder do 
not contravene any existing laws.  
For & on behalf of (Parent Company/Subsidiary Company (Delete whichever not 
applicable)) 
                      M/s _______________________ 
Witness: 
1. Signature ________________ 
        Full Name ________________ 
          Address ________________ 
 
Signature
 
________________ 
 
Full Name
 
________________ 
 
Address
 
_______________ 
 
Signature___________________ 
Name
 
____________________ 
Designation ________________ 
 
Common seal of the         
Company___________________ 

--- PAGE 237 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 237 of 273 
 
Witness: 
2. Signature  ______________ 
 Full Name ______________ 
 Address   ______________ 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 238 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 238 of 273 
 
PROFORMA - XVIII 
 
FORM OF PERFORMANCE BANK GUARANTEE FOR ULTIMATE 
PARENT/SUPPORTING COMPANY 
 
To 
M/s OIL INDIA LIMITED (OIL) CONTRACTS DEPARTMENT DULIAJAN, 
ASSAM, INDIA, PIN-786602 
 
 
WHEREAS   (Name and address of 
Contractor) (hereinafter called "Contractor", which expression shall, unless 
repugnant to the context or meaning thereof include all its successors, 
administrators, executors and assignees) had undertaken, in pursuance of 
Contract No.   to execute ------------------- 
(Brief Description of the Work)(hereinafter called "the Contract"). 
 
 
Further, M/s _____________ (Name of the ultimate parent) having its registered/head 
office at ______________________ is the “Ultimate Parent” of “Supporting Company” 
M/s………………………(Name of the supporting company with 
address)/M/s…………………….(Name of the Contractor with address, in case 
experience is taken from the ultimate parent) (hereinafter referred to as the 
'SUPPORTING COMPANY'/“ULTIMATE PARENT”, which expression shall, unless 
repugnant to the context or meaning thereof include all its successors, 
administrators, executors and assignees). Based on the experience/technical 
strength of the “Supporting Company”/“Ultimate Parent” (whichever is applicable), 
the CONTRACTOR has qualified for award of contract and has agreed to provide 
complete technical and other support to the CONTRACTOR for successful 
completion of the contract as mentioned above, entered between OIL and the 
CONTRACTOR and OIL having agreed that the “ULTIMATE PARENT/SUPPORTING 
COMPANY”, shall furnish to OIL a performance guarantee for Indian Rupees/US$ 
.............. towards providing complete technical and other support to the 
CONTRACTOR for successful completion of the contract as mentioned above, 
 
AND WHEREAS we have agreed to give the “ULTIMATE PARENT/SUPPORTING 
COMPANY”, such a Bank Guarantee; NOW THEREFORE we hereby affirm that we 
are Guarantors on behalf of the “ULTIMATE PARENT/SUPPORTING COMPANY”, up 
to a total of (Amount of 
Guarantee in figures) _____________ (in words ___________________), such amount 
being payable in the types and proportions of currencies in which the Contract price 
is payable, and we undertake to pay you, upon your first written demand and 
without cavil or argument, any sum or sums within the limits of guarantee sum as 

--- PAGE 239 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 239 of 273 
 
aforesaid without your needing to prove or to show grounds or reasons for your 
demand for the sum specified therein. We hereby waive the necessity of your 
demanding the said debt from the Contractor/ULTIMATE PARENT/SUPPORTING 
COMPANY before presenting us with the demand. 
We further agree that no change or addition to or other modification of the terms of 
the Contract or the work to be performed there under or of any of the Contract 
documents which may be made between you and the Contractor shall in any way 
cease us from any liability under this guarantee, and we hereby waive notice of 
such change, addition or modification. 
 
This guarantee is valid until the ___________________day of ___________________. 
 
The details of the Issuing Bank and Controlling Bank are as under: 
 
B. Issuing Bank: 
 
Tender No. __________ 
BANK FAX NO: 
BANK EMAIL ID: 
BANK TELEPHONE NO: 
IFSC CODE OF THE BANK: 
 
C. Controlling Office: 
 
Address of the Controlling Office of the BG issuing Bank: 
Name of the Contact Person at the Controlling Office with Mobile No. and e-mail 
address: 
 
SIGNATURE AND SEAL OF THE GUARANTORS _____________________ 
Designation ____________________________________ 
 
Name of Bank ___________________________________ 
Address ________________________________________ 
Witness _______________ 
Address ________________ 
   ________________ 
 
Date: _____________ 
Place: _____________ 
 
 
Note: 
The Bank Guarantee issuing bank branch shall ensure the following: 
 
a. The Bank Guarantee issued by the bank shall be routed through SFMS 
platform as per the following details: 
 

--- PAGE 240 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 240 of 273 
 
i) “MT 760/MT 760 COV” for issuance of bank guarantee. 
ii) “MT 760/MT 767 COV” for amendment of bank guarantee. 
 
The above message/intimation shall be sent through SFMS by the BG issuing 
bank branch indicating the Tender No. _________ to HDFC Bank Limited, Duliajan 
Branch, Utopia Complex, BOC Gate, Jayanagar, Duliajan, Dibrugarh, PIN – 
786602.  
 
b. Bank Guarantee issued by a Scheduled Bank in India at the request of some 
other Non-Scheduled Bank of India shall not be acceptable. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 241 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 241 of 273 
 
PROFORMA-XIX 
 
                                     [On company’s Letter Head] 
 
To, 
  
M/s OIL INDIA LIMITED (OIL) 
CONTRACTS DEPARTMENT 
DULIAJAN, ASSAM, INDIA, PIN-786602 
 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
This has reference to your Tender No. CDH7317P22 dated ……... 2021 on the 
subject ‘Implementation of initiative-HSSE Incident Reporting and 
Tracking Application for four (04) years and six (06) months and 
extendable by one (01) year under the Digitization Project (DRIVE).’ 
 
We………………(Name of the Company)  confirm that we will engage/deploy the 
services including the key personnel of the Technical collaborator/Subsidiary/Parent 
company/Joint Venture Partner experience (strike out whichever are not applicable) 
on whose strength we are meeting the tender’s Technical requirement as per the 
tender qualifying criteria. 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature 
(Name & Designation of Authorized person) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 242 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 242 of 273 
 
PROFORMA-XX 
 
PARENT/ULTIMATE PARENT/HOLDING COMPANY’S CORPORATE GUARANTEE 
TOWARDS FINANCIAL STANDING 
(Delete whichever not applicable) 
 
(TO BE EXECUTED ON COMPANY’S LETTER HEAD) 
 
DEED OF GUARANTEE 
 
THIS DEED OF GUARANTEE executed at ……….. this …….. day of ……… by M/s 
………………………… (mention complete name) a company duly organized and 
existing under the laws of …………………. (insert jurisdiction/country), having its 
Registered Office at ……………………………………… hereinafter called “the Guarantor” 
which expression shall, unless excluded by or repugnant to the subject or context 
thereof, be deemed to include its successors and permitted assigns.  
 
WHEREAS 
 
M/s. Oil India Limited (hereinafter referred to as OIL) has invited offers vide their 
Tender No. _____________ for  _________________ and M/s __________________(Bidder) 
intends to bid against the said tender and desires to have Financial support of M/s 
________________[Parent/Ultimate Parent/Holding Company(Delete whichever not 
applicable)] and whereas Parent/Ultimate Parent/Holding Company(Delete 
whichever not applicable) represents that they have gone through and understood 
the requirements of subject tender and are capable and committed to provide the 
Financial support as required by the bidder for qualifying and successful execution 
of the contract, if awarded to the bidder.   
 
Now, it is hereby agreed by the Guarantor to give this Guarantee and undertakes as 
follows: 
 
1. The Guarantor confirms that the Bidder is a 100% subsidiary of the Guarantor. 
2. The Guarantor agrees and confirms to provide the Audited Annual Reports of any 
of the preceding 03(three) financial/accounting years reckoned from the original bid 
closing date. 
3. The Guarantor have an annual financial turnover of minimum 
Rs. 13,45,12,500.00 during any of the preceding 03 (Three) financial/accounting 
years reckoned from the original bid closing date. 
4. Net worth of the Guarantor is positive for preceding financial/ accounting year. 
5. The Guarantor undertakes to provide financial support to the Bidder for executing 
the project/job, in case the same is awarded to the Bidder. 
6. The Guarantor represents that: 
(a) this Guarantee herein contained shall remain valid and enforceable till the 
satisfactory execution and completion of the work (including discharge of the 
warranty obligations) awarded to the Bidder. 

--- PAGE 243 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 243 of 273 
 
(b) the liability of the Guarantor, under the Guarantee, is limited to the 50% of the 
annualized contract price entered between the Bidder and OIL. This will, however, be 
in addition to the forfeiture of the Performance Guarantee furnished by the Bidder. 
(c) this Guarantee has been issued after due observance of the appropriate laws in 
force in India.  
(d) this Guarantee shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws in 
force in India and subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of New Delhi, 
India. 
(e) this Guarantee has been given without any undue influence or coercion, and that 
the Guarantor has fully understood the implications of the same.  
(f) the Guarantor has the legal capacity, power and authority to issue this Guarantee 
and that giving of this Guarantee and the performance and observations of the 
obligations hereunder do not contravene any existing laws.  
 
For and on behalf of  
(Bidder)  
For and on behalf of 
(Parent/Ultimate Parent/Holding 
Company (Delete whichever not 
applicable) 
 
         Witness: 
 
         1. 
         2. 
 
Witness: 
 
1. 
2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 244 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 244 of 273 
 
PROFORMA-XXI 
Curriculum Vitae (CV) Format of Project Manager and Technology Architect 
SN HEADS PERSONNEL DETAILS 
1 Role in the Project  
 
2 Name  
3 Name of the Organization  
4 Permanent Address  
5 Highest Educational Qualification  
6 Total Professional Experience (In 
Years)  
7 Domain Experience Tenure (in Years) 
Remarks 
(Super Major, Role, QC) 
7.1    
7.2    
7.3    
7.4  <add more rows if 
required>  
8 
Projects / Assignments  details in reverse order 
Client Name & Reference Details of Scope of 
Project & Project Role 
From 
 (Year) 
To 
 (Year) 
8.1     
8.2     
8.3     
8.4     
8.5  <add more rows if 
required>   
9 
Experience details in reverse order 
Name of Organization / Client Experience Details / 
Responsibilities 
From 
(Year) 
To 
(Year) 
9.1     
9.2     


--- PAGE 245 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 245 of 273 
 
 
 
 
  
9.3     
9.4  <add more rows if 
required>   
10 
Educational Background, Training / Certification including institutions, % of marks, 
specialization areas etc. 
Degree University Year of Award of 
Degree 
10.1    
10.2    
10.3  <add more rows if required>  
I       (Employee Name)          S/o        (Father’s Name)             having permanent residence at ____(Present 
Address)__________, am working with M/s   (Organization Name)            as their employee.   
  
I hereby declare that I will not have any claim for employment or any service benefit from OIL by 
virtue of my deployment for carrying out contract job in OIL by M/s (Organization Name)                   
  
I am an employee of M/s (Organization Name)       for all practical purposes and there is no privy of 
Contract between OIL and me.    
Signature:_________________ 
Place: 
Date:  
 
 
Certified By:  
Role in the Organization: 
Signature _____________ 

--- PAGE 246 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 246 of 273 
 
PROFORMA-XXII 
 
Certificate of Compliance of meeting Bid Reject Criteria  
(To be submitted by OEM on its letter head) 
To, 
Oil India Limited 
Duliajan, 
Assam - 786602 
 
Sub: E-Tender No.: CDH7317P22   
 
 
This is to certify that with respect to the manpower requirement of said tender, 
<Bidder Organization Name> is proposing the following team of resources. 
We also confirm that the qualifications and experience of each of the proposed team 
members comply with the requirements mentioned against respective project role 
under Manpower requirement (Section 8) under SoW/SCC.  
The detailed CVs of the proposed resources are also attached with the technical bid.  
 
S.No Project Role Employer’s 
Name 
Name of Proposed 
Primary Resource(s) 
Name of Proposed 
Additional Resource 
1 Project 
Manager 
 <to be filled>  <to be filled> 
2 Technology 
Architect 
 <to be filled>  <to be filled> 
3 Health, Safety 
and 
Environment 
Domain Expert 
 <to be filled>  <to be filled> 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Bidder is required to submit Certificate of Compliance for meeting the 
eligibility requirements as per BEC. Detailed CV of team members must be 
provided in Annexure C3 (Curriculum Vitae (CV) Format of Project Manager, 
Technology Architect & HSE Domain Expert) for review. 
 
 
Place: 
Date: 
Signature of Authorized Signatory:  
Name of Signatory: 
Title of Authorized Signatory: 
Company Seal: 
Address:  

--- PAGE 247 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 247 of 273 
 
PROFORMA-XXIII 
Declaration of Compliance of meeting Bid Reject Criteria  
 
(To be submitted by bidder on its letter head) 
To, 
Oil India Limited, 
Duliajan, 
Assam - 786602 
 
Dear Sir, 
This is to notify you that our organization <Name> intends to submit a 
proposal in response to IFB No. CDH7317P22 for ‘Implementation of 
initiative-HSSE Incident Reporting and Tracking Application for four (04) 
years and six (06) months and extendable by one (01) year under the 
Digitization Project (DRIVE)’for Oil India Limited. In accordance with the 
above we would like to declare that: 
 
 We are not in the Holiday list of OIL or its Administrative Ministry, 
MoPNG.  
 We are not under liquidation, court receivership or similar proceedings. 
 We are not undergoing insolvency resolution process or liquidation or 
bankruptcy proceeding under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. 
 We are not the consultant/subsidiary company or company under 
management of the primary consultant working on this project. 
 We acknowledge that our bid will stand rejected if our insolvency 
resolution process or liquidation or bankruptcy proceedings is initiated 
during any stage of bid evaluation.  
Sincerely, 
 
                                                                   
                                                                
     
Place: 
Date: 
Signature of Authorized Signatory  
Name of Signatory: 
Title of Authorized Signatory: 
Company Seal: 

--- PAGE 248 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 248 of 273 
 
EXHIBIT–I  
 
UNDERTAKING FOR WORKS INVOLVING POSSIBILITY OF SUB-
CONTRACTIONG 
 
(REF. CLAUSE NO. 8.6 OF THE FORWARDING LETTER) 
 
 
We, M/s ____________________ , have read the clause regarding restrictions on 
procurement from a country which shares a land border with India and on sub-
contracting to contractors from such-countries, we certify that we are not from such 
a country/or if from such a country, has been registered with the Competent 
Authority and will not sub-contract any work to a contractor from such countries 
unless such contractor is registered with the Competent Authority. We hereby 
certify that we fulfil all requirements in this regard and are eligible to be considered.  
 
 
Yours faithfully, 
For (type name of the firm here) 
 
Signature of Authorized Signatory 
Name: 
Designation: 
Phone No. 
Place: 
Date: 
(Affix Seal of the Organization here, if applicable) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 249 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 249 of 273 
 
EXHIBIT–II 
 
 
UNDERTAKING TOWARDS COMPLIANCE OF CLAUSE NO. 8.1 OF THE 
FORWARDING LETTER 
 
 
We, M/s ____________________ , have read the clause regarding restrictions on 
procurement from a country which shares a land border with India, we certify that 
we are not from such a country/or if from such a country, has been registered with 
the Competent Authority. We hereby certify that we fulfil all requirements in this 
regard and is eligible to be considered.  
 
 
Yours faithfully, 
For (type name of the firm here) 
 
Signature of Authorised Signatory 
Name: 
Designation: 
Phone No. 
Place: 
Date: 
(Affix Seal of the Organization here, if applicable) 
 
 
  
 
 

--- PAGE 250 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 250 of 273  
CHECKLIST FOR BEC/BRC 
 
Bidders to mark (√) Provided or Not Provided along with the Reference File No. and page No. whichever is 
applicable. 
 
 
 
Clause 
No. 
 
 
Description 
Reference 
File No. 
and Page 
No. of 
Bidder's 
Quote 
 
 
Provided 
 
 
Not 
Provided 
 BID EVALUATION CRITERIA (BEC)/BID REJECTION CRITERIA (BRC) 
 
BID EVALUATION CRITERIA (BEC): The bid shall conform generally to the 
specifications and terms and conditions given in this bid document.  Bids shall be 
rejected in case the services offered do not conform to required parameters stipulated 
in the technical specifications. Notwithstanding the general conformity of the bids to 
the stipulated specifications, the following requirements will have to be particularly 
met by the Bidders without which the same will be considered as non-responsive and 
rejected. 
 
1.0  FINANCIAL CRITERIA 
1.1 Annual Financial Turnover of the bidder during any of preceding 03 (Three) 
financial/accounting years from the original bid closing date should be at least
₹ 1,05,04,275/- (Rupees One Crore Five Lakh Four Thousand Two Hundred Seventy-
Five Only). 
1.2 "Net worth of bidder must be positive for preceding financial/accounting year. 
 NOTE:   
 The Net worth to be considered against Clause 1.2 above, should be read in 
conjunction with the definition of Net worth as mentioned in Section 2 (57) of the 
Companies Act, 2013. 
 Notes to BEC Clause 1.1 above:  
 
   

--- PAGE 251 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 251 of 273  
a. For proof of Annual Turnover & Net worth, any one of the following 
documents/photocopies must be submitted along with the bid:  
 
(i) Audited Balance Sheet along with Profit & Loss account.  
 
                                               OR 
  
(ii) A certificate issued by a practicing Chartered/Cost Accountant (with Membership 
Number and Firm Registration Number), as per format prescribed in PROFORMA XV.  
 
NOTE:  
 
i) Mention of UDIN (Unique Document Identification Number) is mandatory for all 
Certificates issued w.e.f. February 1, 2019 by Chartered Accountant in Practice. 
   
 ii) In case the Audited Balance sheet and Profit & Loss Account submitted along with 
the bid are in currencies other than INR the bidder shall have to convert the figures in 
equivalent INR considering the prevailing conversion rate on the date on which the 
Audited Balance Sheet and Profit & Loss Account is signed. A CA Certificate is to be 
submitted by the bidder regarding converted figures in equivalent INR. Else, the 
Audited Balance Sheet and Profit & Loss Account shall be evaluated by considering 
the BC selling rate declared by State Bank of India (on the date on which the Audited 
Balance Sheet and Profit & Loss Account is signed) for conversion to INR. 
b. Considering the time required for preparation of Financial Statements, if the last 
date of preceding financial/accounting year falls within the preceding six months 
reckoned from the original bid closing date and the Financial Statements of the 
preceding financial/accounting year are not available with the bidder, then the 
financial turnover of the previous three financial /accounting years excluding the 
preceding financial/accounting year will be considered. In such cases, the Net worth 
of the previous financial/accounting year excluding the preceding 
financial/accounting year will be considered. However, the bidder has to submit an 
undertaking in support of the same along with their technical bid as per PROFORMA-
X.  
  
c. In case the bidder is a Central Govt. Organization/PSU/State Govt. 

--- PAGE 252 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 252 of 273  
Organization/Semi-State Govt. Organization or any other Central/State Govt. 
Undertaking, where the auditor is appointed only after the approval of Comptroller 
and Auditor General of India and the Central Government, their certificates may be 
accepted even though FRN is not available. However, bidder to provide documentary 
evidence for the same.  
 
d. In case the bidder is a Government Department, they are exempted from 
submission of document mentioned under para a. and b. above.  
 
e. Bid will be rejected if not accompanied with adequate documentary proof in support 
of Annual turnover and Net worth as mentioned in clause 1.1. 
 
f. In case the bidder is a sister subsidiary or co-subsidiary company or subsidiary 
(should be a 100% subsidiary of the parent/ultimate parent/holding company) who 
does not meet financial criteria by itself and submits bid based on the financial 
strength of its parent/ultimate parent/holding company, then following documents 
need to be submitted along with the technical bid: 
(i) Audited Balance Sheet and Profit Loss Account of the parent/ultimate 
parent/holding company. 
(ii) Corporate Guarantee of parent/ultimate parent/Holding company (as per 
format enclosed as Annexure-XX by the authorized officials. 
(iii) Documents to substantiate that the bidder is a 100% subsidiary company of 
the parent/ultimate/holding parent company.  
(iv) Documents proving that net worth of the parent/ultimate parent company is 
positive for the accounting year preceding the bid closing date”. 
 
NOTES:  
OIL reserves the right to ask for any Original or other relevant document to verify the 
certification.    
       
2.0 TECHNICAL CRITERIA 
2.1 Bidder must be incorporated in India and must maintain more than 20% local content 
for the offered services.  

--- PAGE 253 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 253 of 273  
Regarding calculation of local content and submission of documents during bidding & 
execution of contracts, provision of Purchase preference policy-linked with Local 
Content (PP-LC) notified vide letter no. FP-20013/2/2017-FP-PNG dated 17th 
November, 2020 of MoPNG shall be applicable as per the Notification(s) and any 
amendment thereof. 
 
If such local content is not maintained during execution of contract, OIL reserves the 
right to invoke the Performance Securities submitted by the bidding and supporting 
companies.  
A copy of Certificate of Incorporation must be provided along with the Bid. 
 
2.2 Work Experience of the Bidder: 
2.2.1 Bidder must have experience of similar work in India or abroad in the last 7(seven) 
years reckoned from the Original Bid Closing Date fulfilling the following conditions:  
i) At least 01 (one) similar work in Oil & Gas industry. 
 
ii) M ust have successfully designed, hosted, implemented and maintained at least 
01 (one) similar work on cloud hosted infrastructure  
 
iii) At least 01 (one) similar work with at least 1000 end users at client under a 
single contract.  
“SIMILAR work" mentioned above means “Supply/Development, implementation & 
commissioning of the proposed HSE Software.” 
 

--- PAGE 254 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 254 of 273  
For proof of requisite Experience (refer Clause No. 2.2.1 above), the following 
documents/ photocopy (self-attested/attested) must be submitted along with the bid:  
 
A. Contract/Work order document showing detailed scope of Job and quantum; 
 
AND 
  
 
B. Job Completion Certificate showing:  
(i) Number of job done  
(ii) Nature of job done along with Work order no./Contract no.  
(iii) Contract period and date of completion. 
  
(iv) Bidder must submit Certificate from CEO/Country Head / Chief 
Operating Officer/Authorized Signatory/ Partner holding the Power of 
Attorney of the organization and client certificate to substantiate the number 
of users. 
 
OR 
 
C.  SES (Service Entry Sheet)/Certificate of Payment (COP) issued by the 
company indicating the following:  
 
(i) Work order no./Contract no.  
(ii) No of jobs done  
(iii) Period of Service  
(iv) Nature of Service  
    (v) Bidder must submit Certificate from CEO/Country Head /Chief Operating 
Officer/Authorized Signatory/ Partner holding the Power of Attorney of the 
organization and client certificate to substantiate the number of users. 
    (vi) Any other document(s) which can substantiate the experience  
 
Only Letter of Intent (LOI)/Letter of Award (LOA), or Work Order(s) are not acceptable 
as evidence.  

--- PAGE 255 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 255 of 273  
 
Mere award of contract(s) will not be counted towards experience. Successful 
completion of the awarded contract(s) to the extent of volume/value, as stipulated 
under Clause Nos. 2.2.1 shall only be treated as acceptable experience.  
 
2.2.2Bidder must be the IPR (Intellectual Property Rights) Owner / Original Licensor 
OR Subsidiary of IPR owner / Authorized implementation partner by IPR owner 
of the software proposed for implementation. (Original Licensor / IPR Owner is defined 
as the company holding software licensing rights and controlling software 
development cycle). 
In this regard Certificate from the CEO/Country Head / Chief Operating
Officer/Authorized Signatory/Partner holding the Power of Attorney of the
organization must be submitted by the bidder. If the bidder is Authorized 
Implementation Partner or Subsidiary of the Original Licensor / IPR owner, the bidder 
is required to submit the proof of being the Authorized Implementation Partner or 
subsidiary of the original licensor / IPR Owner along with their bid submission like 
Letter of Authorization/Comfort Letter from the Original Licensor /OEM.  
 
2.2.3 The proposed software by the bidder must have undergone at least 2 (two) upgrades 
and/or updates over the last 2 years reckoned from the Original Bid Closing Date. 
In this regard a self-certification must be provided by the CEO/Country Head / Chief 
Operating Officer/Authorized Signatory/Partner holding the Power of Attorney of the 
organization along with build notes/release notes to substantiate the changes in 
each version upgrade/update. 
   In this regard bidder must submit Certificate from CEO/Country Head /  Chief 
Operating Officer/Authorized Signatory/ Partner holding the Power  of Attorney 
of the organization, job completion certificate, work order no. and client certificate to 
substantiate the number of users. 
 
2.2.4 Bidder should take responsibility of provisioning cloud infrastructure, hardware 
requirements, software requirements and associated licenses etc. to implement the 
end-to-end solution successfully. In this regard bidder must submit Certificate from 
CEO/Country Head / Chief Operating Officer/Authorized Signatory/Partner holding 
the Power of Attorney of the organization as per attached PROFORMA XXII. 

--- PAGE 256 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 256 of 273  
2.2.5 Bidder should submit a ‘No Deviation Certificate’ against the functional requirements 
mentioned in Scope of Work and Special Terms and Condition of the Tender. In this 
regard, bidder must submit Certificate from CEO/Country Head / Chief Operating 
Officer/Authorized Signatory/Partner holding the Power of Attorney of the 
organization as per PROFORMA II. 
2.2.6 The bidder must submit the CVs of all the Team Members proposed to be deployed as 
per Section 8 of the Scope of Work / Special Terms & Conditions for this project as per 
attached PROFORMA XXI duly certified by CEO/Country Head / Chief Operating Officer OR 
by any Partner holding the Power of Attorney along with the bid 
 
2.2.7 Bidder should provide an undertaking of providing manpower as per Manpower 
requirement Section 8 of the Scope of Work / Special Terms & Conditions.  In this 
regard, bidder must submit a Certificate from CEO/MD/Authorized Signatory or POA 
of the organization as per attached PROFORMA XXII. 
Notes to BEC Clause 2.2.1 above:  
(A) Evaluation for ‘Start-Ups’ 
 
Following evaluation methodology shall be adopted for the bidders who are recognised
as ‘Start-ups’ by DPIIT (Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade), 
Ministry of Commerce & Industry, Govt. of India. 
 
 They are exempted from complying Annual Financial Turnover Criteria 
mentioned in Clause No. 1.0 
 
 They must have relevant experience of “ Supply/Development, 
implementation & commissioning of the proposed HSE Software” as mentioned 
above in BEC Clause No. 2.2.1 
 

--- PAGE 257 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 257 of 273  
 Bidders claiming above exemptions as “Start-Ups” must substantiate same with 
a certificate issued by DPIIT which should be valid as on bid closing date.  
 
(B) For proof of requisite Experience documents mentioned in Clause No. 2.2.1 
above must be submitted along with the bid:  
 
2.2.8 Following work experience will also be taken into consideration:  
 
(i) If the prospective bidder has executed contract in which similar work is also a 
component of the contract.  
 
(ii) In case the start date of the requisite experience is prior to the preceding 07 (seven) 
years’ period reckoned from the original bid closing date but completion is within the 
preceding 07 (seven) years’ period reckoned from the original bid closing date. 
 
Proof of work experience against Para 2.2.5 (i) and (ii) above, to satisfy a) similar work 
b) minimum prescribed value/quantity/period c) prescribed period of 07 years, to be 
submitted as below: 
  
i) In case requisite experience is against OIL’s Contract: Bidder must submit the 
breakup of similar work and its quantity, period mentioning SES No. and copies of all 
relevant SES.  
 
ii) In case requisite experience is NOT against OIL’s Contract: Bidder must submit 
the breakup of similar work and its quantity/volume executed within the prescribed 
period of 07 (Seven) years reckoned from the original bid closing date. The breakup 
must be certified by the end user or a certificate issued by a practicing 
Chartered/Cost Accountant Firm (with Membership Number & Firm Registration 
Number).  
 
2.3 ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA IN CASE BIDS ARE SUBMITTED ON THE BASIS OF 
EXPERIENCE OF THE PARENT/SUBSIDIARY COMPANY: 
 
Offers of those bidders who themselves do not meet the experience criteria as 
stipulated in clause nos. 2.2 above  can also be considered provided the bidder is a 

--- PAGE 258 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 258 of 273  
subsidiary company of the parent company [supporting company] in which the 
parent company has 100% stake or parent company can also be considered on the 
strength of its 100% subsidiary [supporting company]. However, the 
parent/subsidiary company of the bidder should on its own meet the experience as 
stipulated in the BEC and should not rely for meeting the experience criteria on its 
sister subsidiary/co-subsidiary company or through any other arrangement like 
Technical Collaboration agreement. 
 
In case of subsidiary company dependent upon the experience of the parent company 
or vice-versa with a view to ensure commitment and involvement of the 
parent/subsidiary company for successful execution of the contract, the participating 
bidder should enclose an Agreement between the parent and the subsidiary company 
or vice-versa and Parent/Subsidiary Guarantee from the parent/subsidiary company 
to OIL for fulfilling the obligation under the Agreement, along with the technical bid. 
 
In both the situations mentioned above, following conditions are required to be 
fulfilled/documents to be submitted: 
 
(i) Undertaking by the supporting company to provide a performance security as 
per format and instructions enclosed at PROFORMA-XVIII, equivalent to 50% of the 
value of the performance security which is to be submitted by the bidding company, in 
case the supported bidding company is the successful bidder.  
 
(ii) Undertaking from the supporting company to the effect that in addition to 
invoking the performance security submitted by the contractor, the performance 
security provided by supporting company shall be invoked by OIL due to non-
performance of the contractor. 
 
Note: In case supporting company fails to submit performance bank guarantee as per 
(i) above action will be initiated as per PROFORMA– V of this Tender Document. 
 
2.4 ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA IN CASE BID IS SUBMITTED ON THE BASIS OF 

--- PAGE 259 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 259 of 273  
EXPERIENCE OF SISTER SUBSIDIARY/ CO-SUBSIDIARY COMPANY: 
 
Offers of those bidders who themselves do not meet the experience criteria as 
stipulated in Clause Nos. 2.2 can also be considered based on the experience criteria 
of their sister subsidiary/ co-subsidiary company within the ultimate parent/ holding 
company subject to meeting of the following conditions: 
 
i) Provided that the sister subsidiary/ co-subsidiary company and the bidding 
company are both 100% subsidiaries of an ultimate parent/holding company either 
directly or through intermediate 100% subsidiaries of the ultimate parent/ holding 
company or through any other 100% subsidiary company within the ultimate/holding 
parent company. Documentary evidence to this effect to be submitted by the ultimate 
parent/ holding company along with the technical bid. 
 
ii) Provided that the sister subsidiary/ co-subsidiary company on its own meets and 
not through any other arrangement like Technical Collaboration agreement meets the 
experience criteria stipulated in the BEC/BRC. 
 
iii) In case of contracts involving multifarious activities such as – (a) manufacturing/ 
supply (b) installation and commissioning (c) servicing and maintenance of any 
equipment, then in that case, the bidding company can draw on the experience of 
their multiple subsidiary sister company (ies) / co-subsidiary company (ies) 
specializing in each sphere of activity, i.e. (a) manufacturing/supply (b) installation 
and commissioning (c) servicing and maintenance. However, all the sister subsidiary 
company(ies)/ co-subsidiary company(ies) and the bidding company should be 100% 
subsidiary company(ies) of an ultimate parent/ holding company either directly or 
through intermediate 100% subsidiaries of the ultimate parent/ holding company or 
through any other 100% subsidiary company within the ultimate/ holding parent 
company. 
 
iv) Undertaking by the supporting company to provide a performance security as per 
format and instructions enclosed at PROFORMA-XVIII, equivalent to 50% of the value 
of the performance security which is to be submitted by the bidding company, in case 
the supported bidding company is the successful bidder.  
 
v) Undertaking from the supporting company to the effect that in addition to invoking 

--- PAGE 260 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 260 of 273  
the performance security submitted by the contractor, the performance security 
provided by supporting company shall be invoked by OIL due to non-performance of 
the contractor. 
 
Note: In case supporting company fails to submit performance bank guarantee as per 
(i) above action will be initiated as per PROFORMA – V of this Tender Document. 
 Note to Clause 2.2, 2.3 & 2.4 above  
 
i) Bidders quoting on the technical strength as per clause nos. 2.2, 2.3 & 2.4 should 
provide the respective services including key personnel from parent/ sister 
subsidiary / co-subsidiary / JV partner for a minimum duration of 50% of the 
Contract period during execution of the contract. A declaration as per Annexure-VII
in this respect to be submitted as part of technical bid. 
 
ii) In cases where subsidiary/parent/ sister subsidiary / co-subsidiary companies do 
not have Permanent Establishment in India, the bidding company can furnish 
Performance Security equivalent to 150% of the value of the Performance 
Security which is to be submitted by the bidding company.  In such case bidding 
company shall furnish an undertaking in their Company’s letter head that their 
subsidiary/parent/ sister company is not having any Permanent Establishment in 
India in terms of Income Tax Act of India.  
 
2.5 SIMILAR work executed by a bidder for its own organization/subsidiary cannot be 
considered as experience for the purpose of meeting BEC.  
 
2.6      Bids submitted for part of the work will be rejected. Bid will be rejected if not   
     accompanied with adequate documentary proof in support of Work experience   
     as mentioned in clause 2.2.  
 
 
2.7 Bids from following types of bidder will not be accepted: 
• Who are in the Holiday list of OIL or its Administrative Ministry, MoPNG. 
• Who are under liquidation, court receivership or similar proceedings. 

--- PAGE 261 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 261 of 273  
• Consultant or their subsidiary Company or companies under the management of 
consultant for execution of the same project for which they are working as 
consultant. 
• Who are undergoing insolvency resolution process or liquidation or bankruptcy 
proceeding under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (Code). 
• Whose insolvency resolution process or liquidation or bankruptcy proceeding is 
initiated under the Code at any stage of evaluation of the bid. 
In this regard bidder must submit Self-Declaration in format duly certified by 
CEO/Country Head / Chief Operating Officer/Authorized Signatory/Partner holding 
the Power of Attorney along with the bid as per PROFORMA XXIII. 
3.1  Price bid shall be opened in respect of only the techno-commercially acceptable 
bidders whose bids have been found to be substantially responsive. A substantially 
responsive bid is one that meets the terms and conditions of the Tender and/or the 
acceptance of which bid will not result in indeterminate liability on OIL.  
3.2  Bidders are required to quote for all the items as per Price Bid Format; otherwise the 
offer of the bidder will be straightway rejected. 
3.3   If there is any discrepancy between the unit price and the total price, the unit price 
will prevail and the total price shall be corrected. Similarly, if there is any 
discrepancy between words and figure, the amounts in words shall prevail and will 
be considered for evaluation. 
3.4  The quantities shown against each item in the “Price Bid Format” shall be considered 
for the purpose of Bid Evaluation. It is, however, to be clearly understood that the 
assumptions made in respect of the quantities for various operations are only for the 
purpose of evaluation of the bid and the Contractor will be paid on the basis of the 
actual number of days/parameter, as the case may be. 
 
3.5  The bidders are advised not to offer any discount/rebate separately and to offer their 
prices in the Price Bid Format after considering discount/rebate, if any. 
  
3.6  Conditional and unsolicited discount will not be considered in evaluation. However, 
if such bidder happens to be the lowest recommended bidder, unsolicited discount 
without any condition will be considered for computing the contract price. 

--- PAGE 262 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 262 of 273  
3.7 PURCHASE PREFERENCE CLAUSE: Purchase Preference to MSE’s is not applicable 
against this Tender. 
4.0  EVALUATION METHODOLOGY: The bids conforming to the technical specifications, 
terms and conditions stipulated in the bidding document and considered to be 
responsive after subjecting to Bid Rejection Criteria will be considered for further 
evaluation as given below: 
4.1  Bids shall be evaluated both in terms of ‘Quality’ as well as ‘Quoted Price’ i.e. Quality 
& Cost Based Selection (QCBS) methodology. The weightage for the ‘Quality’ is 60 
and the weightage for the ‘Quoted’ price is 40. 
4.2  The marks allocated against various sub-sections under ‘Quality’ of Bid shall be as 
hereunder: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMPUTATION TABLE 
# Criteria  Unit Marks  Max 
Marks  
Supporting 
Documents  
A. Proposed Software Evaluation 
1.  Number of projects 
completed in  
Supply/Developmen
t, implementation & 
commissioning of 
HSE Software using 
the proposed software 
a) ≥1 & ≤3 
Assignments: 
5 Marks 
b) ≥4 & ≤6 
Assignments: 
10 Marks 
c) ≥7 
25 
Marks 
As defined under 
Clause 2.2.1  

--- PAGE 263 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 263 of 273  
in India or abroad 
under a single 
contract over the last 
7 (seven) years  
reckoned from the 
Original Bid Closing 
Date 
Assignments: 
15 Marks 
Additional 
Marks  
2 Mark for every 
project in Oil & 
Gas Industry 
(Max 10 Marks) 
2. The proposed EHS 
software should be 
recognized as part of 
Leaders segment by 
Verdantix under their 
Verdantix Green 
Quadrant :EHS 
Software report both 
in 2019 & 2021. 
 
25 Marks 25 
Marks  
Copy of Verdantix 
Green Quadrant: 
EHS Software 
reports self-
attested by 
CEO/MD/Authoriz
ed Signatory/POA 
of the bidding 
company to be 
submitted along 
with the bid. 
Note: In case it is 
attested by 
authorized 
signatory other 
than CEO/MD/, 
the contact details 
of the signatory 
must be 
mentioned for 
verification by OIL. 

--- PAGE 264 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 264 of 273  
3. Number of projects 
delivered in 
implementation of 
HSE Software  
involving SAP ERP 
integration in India or 
abroad by the bidder in 
the last 7 years 
a) ≥1 & ≤2 
Assignments: 
5 Marks 
b) ≥3 
Assignments:
10 Marks 
10 
Marks 
As defined under 
Clause 2.2.7  
4. Certification : CMMi 
Level 3 or higher  
10 Marks 10 
Marks 
Copy of valid 
certificate(s) issued 
to the bidder or 
OEM of the 
proposed software 
signed by 
CEO/MD/Authoriz
ed Signatory/ POA 
of the 
organization. 
(Certificates 
provided should be 
valid as on bid 
closing date) 
B.  Proposed Manpower Evaluation 
5.  Experience of Project 
Manager in leading 
similar assignments 
of implementation & 
commissioning of 
proposed EHS 
Software  over the 
last 5 years. 
a) For ≥1 & ≤2 
Assignments: 5 
Marks 
b) For ≥3 & ≤4 
Assignments: 
10 Marks 
c) For ≥5 
Assignments: 
15 
Marks 
 
 

--- PAGE 265 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 265 of 273  
15 Marks 
 
Experience certificate 
with details of the 
project and client 
details (including 
contact number and 
email ID for reference 
call) certified by 
CEO/MD/Authorized 
Signatory/POA is 
required. 
Refer Annexure C5 
 
 
6. Experience of 
Technology Architect 
in delivering similar 
assignments of 
implementation & 
commissioning of 
proposed EHS 
Software Modules 
over the last 5 years. 
a) For ≥1 & ≤2 
Assignments: 
5 Marks 
b) For ≥3 & ≤4 
Assignments: 
10 Marks 
c) For ≥5 
Assignments: 
15 Marks 
 
15 
Marks 
Total 100 Marks  
 
Notes to section 4.2: 
i. To demonstrate experience against criteria specified in above table, bidder must 
submit relevant documents as per clause 2.2.1 above 
 
ii. It shall be the bidder's responsibility to ensure submission of unambiguous/clear 
and sufficient documentary evidence in support of the evaluation criteria. 
iii. OIL reserves the right to verify any or all data/document/information provided by 
the bidder. False statement by the bidder will make it liable for appropriate action. 
iv. Price Bids shall be evaluated taking into account the Price quoted for all services 
including applicable GST (CGST & SGST/UTGST or IGST). 
v. Quoted price must include all liabilities and taxes including statutory liabilities but 
excluding GST, which shall be quoted separately in the Price Bid format. 
 
4. 3  To ascertain the Inter-se-ranking of the bids, the Quality & Cost Based Selection 
(QCBS) methodology as mentioned below shall be adopted: 
An Evaluated Bid Score (B) will be calculated for each bid using the following formula 
in order to have a comprehensive assessment of the Bid price and the Quality of each 
bid: 

--- PAGE 266 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 266 of 273  
𝑩= 𝐂 𝐥𝐨𝐰
𝑪 ×𝟏𝟎𝟎×𝐗+ 𝐓
𝑻 𝒉𝒊𝒈𝒉×𝟏𝟎𝟎×𝐘 
where, 
C = Evaluated Bid Price of the bidder 
C low = The lowest of the evaluated bid prices among the responsive bids 
T = The total marks obtained by the bidder against “Quality‟ criteria 
T high = The highest mark scored against “Quality‟ criteria among all responsive bids 
X = 0.4 (The weightage for “Quoted price‟ is 40 %) 
Y = 0.6 (The weightage for “Quality‟ is 60 %) 
Note: The Evaluated Bid Score (B) shall be considered up to two decimal places. 
5.0 AWARD OF CONTRACT: 
5.1  Contract shall be awarded to the bidder with the highest Evaluated Bid Score (B). 
5.2  In the event of two or more bids having the same highest Evaluated Bid Score (B), 
the bid scoring the highest marks against ‘Quality’ criteria will be recommended for 
award of contract. Even if there is a tie, ‘draw of lots’ will be resorted to arrive at the 
recommended bidder. 
5.3 To ascertain the inter-se-ranking, the comparison of the responsive bids will be made 
subject to loading for any deviation. 
6.0 VERIFICATION AND CERTIFICATION OF DOCUMENTS BY INDEPENDENT THIRD-
PARTY INSPECTION AGENCIES: 
 
6.1 Oil India Limited (OIL) has engaged the following 09 (Nine) Independent Inspection 
Agencies for a period of 04 (four) years with effect from 06.05.2020 to verify and certify 
various documents required against BEC/BRC of the tender: 
 
Sl. 
No. 
Name of Independent 
Inspection Agency Contact E-mail ID 
i. M/s. RINA India Pvt. Ltd. a. ssd@rina.org 
b. Andrea.Vattuone@rina.org 
ii. M/s. Dr. Amin Controllers 
Pvt. Ltd. 
a. rkjain@rcaindia.net  
b. info@rcaindia.net 
iii. M/s. Germanischer Llyod 
Industrial Services GmbH 
a. mangesh.gaonkar@dnvgl.com 

--- PAGE 267 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 267 of 273  
(DNV GL- Oil & Gas) 
iv. M/s. TÜV SÜD South Asia 
Pvt. Ltd. 
a. Jaimin.Bhatt@tuv-sud.in   
b. sanjaykumar.singh@tuv-sud.in 
c. Pankaj.Narkhede@tuv-sud.in 
d. Ajit.Yadav@tuv-sud.in 
v. M/s. IRCLASS Systems 
and Solutions Private 
Limited 
a. abhishek.singh@irclass.org 
b. pradeep.bansal@irclass.org 
c. Asim.Hajwani@irclass.org 
d. Amit.Ketkar@irclass.org  
e. industrial_services@irclass.org 
vi. M/s. Gulf Llyods Industrial 
Services (India) Pvt. Ltd. 
a. contact@gulflloyds.com 
b. bbhavsar@gulfllyods.com  
c. inspection@gulflloyds.com 
d. gulflloyds.india@gmail.com 
vii. M/s. TUV India Private 
Limited 
a. salim@tuv-nord.com 
b. delhi@tuv_nord.com 
viii. M/s. TÜV Rheinland (India) 
Pvt. Ltd. 
a. Shailesh.Deotale@ind.tuv.com 
b. ravi.kumar@ind.tuv.com 
c. rupeshkumar.singh@ind.tuv.com 
d. Neeraj.Chaturvedi@ind.tuv.com 
ix. M/s. Bureau Veritas (India) 
Private Limited 
a. udit.chopra@bureauveritas.com 
b. vishal.sapale@bureauveritas.com 
c. dinesh.sukhramani@bureauveritas.com 
d. p.sridhar@bureauveritas.com 
e. hariprasad.jhawar@bureauveritas.com 
f. amit.shaw@bureauveritas.com 
g. business.support@bureauveritas.com 
h. labhanshu.sharma@bureauveritas.com 
i. pramodkumar.yadav@bureauveritas.com 

--- PAGE 268 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 268 of 273  
j. sonal.lad@bureauveritas.com 
k. bvindia.corporate@in.bureauveritas.com  
 
6.2 The Bidders have to get verified and certified the various documents required against 
BEC/BRC of the tender by anyone of the above Independent Inspection Agencies and 
submit the duly certified Inspection Certificate by the Inspection Agencies along with 
the Technical Bid of the Tender. All Charges of the Third-party Independent Inspection 
Agencies towards verification of bidder’s documents and certification thereof shall be 
borne by the respective bidders and Payments on account of above inspection, 
verification and certification shall be made directly by the Bidder to the Inspection 
Agency(s). OIL will not be responsible for any payment dispute between Bidders and 
Third Party Inspection Agencies. 
6.3 As mentioned above, Bidder(s) have to submit the verified documents along with the 
Technical Bids. Bid submitted with un-verified supporting documents shall not be 
considered. However, in case a bidder submits its bid alongwith all relevant 
supporting documents as per BEC/BRC without getting all/some of them verified by 
the designated Independent Inspection agency, such bid can be provisionally 
considered provided it is accompanied by an Undertaking by the Bidder on their 
official letterhead to submit the duly verified copies/verification certificate within 07 
(Seven) days of bid opening. Company will neither send any reminder nor seek any 
clarification in this regard from such bidders, and the bid will be rejected outright if 
the bidder fails to submit the verified copies/verification certificate within 07 (Seven) 
days of   bid opening at its own risk and responsibility. 
6.4 The methodology of inspection/ verification of documents followed by the agencies is 
broadly as under but not limited to: 
 
(a) It is obligatory on the part of the interested Bidders, who choose to participate 
against the tender, to understand the tender requirements in entirety and the 
requisite documents sought for in support of the Bid Rejection & Bid Evaluation 
Criteria (BEC/BRC) mentioned in the tender in particular. The Bidder must 
produce all the appropriate documents before any of the OIL’s empanelled third-
party certifying agencies for verification/certification. Neither OIL nor the third-
party certifying agency shall be held accountable in any manner regarding the 
choice of documents by the bidder for verification. Therefore, getting the 

--- PAGE 269 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 269 of 273  
appropriate documents inspected/verified by the agency in support of BEC/BRC 
clauses is the sole responsibility of the Bidder. 
 
(b) The prospective bidder shall contact any of the empanelled inspection agencies. 
The agency shall go through the Tender Document, especially the requirements of 
BEC/BRC and list the documents to be verified. They shall depute their 
qualified/competent inspector to the Bidder’s premises to check the original 
documents and certify the copies which the bidder shall submit along with their 
bids. OIL will reserve the right to ask the inspection agencies to verify the 
documents with source, if required at no extra cost to OIL. Verification of 
documents by OIL‟s empaneled third party agency shall not automatically 
make the bidder eligible for award of contract. 
 
(c) Verification of documents (but not limited to) are normally categorized as under: 
 
 General Requirement: 
 Check Bidder’s PAN Card 
 Check Bidder’s GST Certificate 
 Check ITR of company  
 Check Bidder’s Certificate of Incorporation – Domestic Bidder. 
 
 Additional Documents : (If applicable against the tender) 
• Joint Ventures Agreements – To cross-check with JV Partners 
• Consortium Agreements – To cross-check with Consortium Partners 
• Holding/Parent/Subsidiary/Sister Subsidiary/Co-Subsidiary Company 
– To check the Share Holding pattern 
 
 
 Technical Criteria 
• To check Experience Proof- Completion Certificates, Reference contact 
verification, Original Work Order/Contract Copy and any other 
document(s), if called for vide BEC/BRC of the Tender. 
 

--- PAGE 270 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 270 of 273  
 Financial Criteria 
o Check and verify Audited Balance Sheet/CA certificate  
o To check the Line of Credit, if incorporated in the tender. 
Notes:  
(i) If any documents LOI/LOA/Contracts etc. are submitted towards 
BEC/BRC experience criteria issued by Oil India Limited, such 
documents need not be verified by TPI agency. 
 
(ii) Undertaking from TPI Agency as per format (PROFORMA - XIV) 
enclosed should be submitted along with the Bid. 
 
7.0 COMMERCIAL EVALUATION CRITERIA: 
 
7.1 Bids shall be submitted under single stage Two Bid System i.e. Technical Bid and Priced 
Bid separately in the OIL’s e-Tender portal. The Technical Bid is to be uploaded as per 
Scope of Work & Technical Specification of the tender in “Technical Attachments” Tab
and Priced Bid as per Proforma-B uploaded in the “Notes & Attachments” Tab. Bids 
shall be rejected outright if the prices are indicated in the technical bids. Bids not 
conforming to this two-bid system shall be rejected outright. 
 
7.2   Bidder shall offer firm prices. Price quoted by the successful bidder must remain    
        firm during the execution of the contract and not subject to variation on any   
        account. 
 
7.3         Bids should be valid for a period of 120 (one-hundred twenty) days. Bids   
        with shorter validity shall be rejected as being non-responsive. 
 
7.4 Bid Security is not applicable against this tender. However, bidders shall submit 
along with their bid a signed “Bid Security Declaration” (PROFORMA-V) 
accepting that, if they withdraw or modify their bids during the period of validity; or 
if they are awarded the contract and they fail to sign the contract; or if they fail to 
submit performance security before the deadline defined in the NIT; they shall be 

--- PAGE 271 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 271 of 273  
suspended for the period of two years. This suspension of two years shall be 
automatic without conducting any enquiry. 
 
7.5 The Integrity Pact must be uploaded in OIL’s E-Procurement portal along with the 
Technical Bid digitally signed by the same signatory who digitally signed the Bid i.e. 
who is duly authorized to sign the Bid. If any bidder refuses to sign Integrity Pact or 
declines to submit the Integrity Pact, their bid shall be rejected. 
 
7.6 Bids received through the e-procurement portal shall only be accepted. Bids 
received in any other form shall not be accepted. 
 
7.7 The bid documents are non-transferable. Bid can only be submitted in the name of 
the bidder in whose name the User ID and Password have been issued. Unsolicited 
bids shall not be considered and shall be straightway rejected. 
 
7.8 Any physical documents wherever called for, submitted by bidders shall contain no 
interlineations, white fluid erasures or overwriting except as necessary to correct 
errors made by the Bidder, in which case such correction shall be initialled by the 
person or persons who has/have digitally signed the Bid. 
 
7.9 Any Bid containing false statement shall be rejected. 
 
7.10 Bidders must quote clearly and strictly in accordance with the price schedule 
outlined in “Price Bid Format” of Bid Document, otherwise the Bid shall be 
summarily rejected. 
 
7.11 Bidders shall quote directly and not through their Agent/ 
Representative/Retainer/Associate. 
 
7.12 Bidder must accept and comply with the following clauses as given in the Bid 
Document in toto failing which bid shall be rejected: 

--- PAGE 272 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 272 of 273  
i) Performance Security Clause 
ii) Taxes Clause 
iii) Insurance Clause 
iv) Force Majeure Clause 
v) Termination Clause 
vi) Arbitration Clause 
vii) Liability Clause 
viii) Withholding Clause 
ix) Liquidated damages Clause 
x) Firm price 
xi) Bid Security Declaration 
xii) Integrity Pact 
 
8.0 GENERAL: 
 
8.1  In case bidder takes exception to any clause of bid document not covered under BEC, 
then the Company has the discretion to load or reject the offer on account of such 
exception if the bidder does not withdraw/modify the deviation when/as advised by 
company. The loading so done by the Company will be final and binding on the 
bidders. 
 
8.2  To ascertain the substantial responsiveness of the Bid the Company reserves the right 
to ask the bidder for clarification in respect of clauses under BEC also and such 
clarifications fulfilling the BEC clauses in toto must be received on or before the 
deadline given by the Company, failing which the offer will be summarily rejected. 
 
8.3  If any of the clauses in the BEC contradict with other clauses of the Bid Document 
elsewhere, then the clauses in the BEC shall prevail. 
 
8.4 Bidder(s) must note that requisite information(s)/financial values etc. as required in 
the BEC/BRC & Tender are clearly understandable from the supporting documents 
submitted by the Bidder(s); otherwise Bids shall be rejected. 
 

--- PAGE 273 ---
E-TENDER NO. CDH7317P22 
 
Page 273 of 273  
8.5 OIL will not be responsible for delay, loss or non-receipt of applications for 
participating in the bid sent by mail and will not entertain any correspondence in this 
regard. 
 
8.6 The originals of such documents [furnished by bidder(s)] shall have to be produced by 
bidder(s) to OIL as and when asked for. 
  
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 274 ---


--- PAGE 275 ---


--- PAGE 276 ---


--- PAGE 277 ---


--- PAGE 278 ---


--- PAGE 279 ---


--- PAGE 280 ---


--- PAGE 281 ---


--- PAGE 282 ---


--- PAGE 283 ---


--- PAGE 284 ---


--- PAGE 285 ---


--- PAGE 286 ---


