--- PAGE 1 ---
BEFORE THE HON'BLE NATIONAL GREEN TRIBUNAL, 
Principal Bench, New Delhi 
I.A. No. 30/2020 
(For modification/recall of order dated 24.6.2020) 
In 
Original Application No. 43/2020(EZ) 
In the Matter of: - 
Bonani Kakkar 
Versus 
Oil India Limited & Ors. 
Applicant(s) 
Respondent(s) 
AND 
I.A. No. 31/2020 (For modification/recall of order dated 24.6.2020) 
In 
Original Application No. 44/2020(EZ) 
Wildlife and Environment Conservation Organisation 
Versus 
Union of India & Ors. 
INDEX 
Applicant(s) 
Respondent(s) 
S.No. Particulars Page No. 
1. Preliminary Report of the Committee of Experts constituted by the 
Hon'ble National Green Tribunal, Principal Bench, New Delhi in the 
matter of I.A. No. 30/2020 in 0. A. No. 43 of 2020 (EZ) and I.A. No. 
31/2020 in 0. A. No. 44/2020(EZ) order dated 02.07.2020 
2. Annexure- I: A copy ofHon'ble NGT order dated 02.07.2020. 
... 
~ 4-\00\ 1.,01.0 
(Dr.Pr~ ~t~ ;rgava) 
Member Secretary 
Central Pollution Control Board, 
Parivesh Bhawan, East Arjun Nagar, 
Delhi-I I 0032 
Place: Delhi 
Date: 24th July, 2020 


--- PAGE 2 ---
 
1  
 
 
  PRELIMINARY REPORT  of  The Committee of Experts constituted by the Hon’ble National Green Tribunal, Principal Bench, New Delhi  headed by  JUSTICE BROJENDRA PRASAD KATAKEY, FORMER JUDGE,  GAUHATI HIGH COURT, GUWAHATI  Submitted to  THE HON’BLE NATIONAL GREEN TRIBUNAL, PRINCIPAL BENCH, NEW DELHI   ON 24.07.2020 (VOL. I)     Constituted vide Order dated 24.06.2020 in O.A No. 43/2020/EZ and O.A No.44/2020/EZ to look into issues concerning Well Baghjan -5 in Tinsukia, Assam. 


--- PAGE 3 ---
 
2  
 
INDEX  Chapter Particulars Pages Chapter I A. Introduction 3 - 6 Chapter II A. Methodology  B. Analysis of Representation, Reports and Recommendations  7 - 8 9 - 20 Chapter III  Geo Environment of Baghjan and its Neighbouring Areas A. Location 1. Land Use a. Agricultural land and Settlements b. Forest c. Water bodies d. Flora e. Fauna  
21 - 28 21 23 23 24 25 26 27 Chapter IV Baghjan Oilfield and Well Baghjan -5 A. The Baghjan Oilfield I. Historical background of Baghjan Field II. Well Baghjan -5 III. Observations and Findings of the Committee a. Causes of the Accident b. Fixation of Responsibility for the Accident c. Immediate Preventive Measures to Avoid Similar Blowout and Explosion  B. Compliance or Otherwise of Environmental Safeguards and Mandatory Consent I. Consent to Establish and Consent to Operate II. Compliance or Otherwise of the Orders of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India III. Issues pertaining to the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986  
29 - 59 29 29  31  34  37  40  40  43  44  55   57   Chapter V Assessment of Damages and Interim Measures A. Assessment of Damages I. Extent of Affected Areas II. Damages occurred due to the Incident a. Impact on Environment b. Impact on Eco Sensitive Zone, Dibru Saikhowa National Park and the Maguri Motapung Wetland  III. Socio Economic Loss IV. Remedial Measures by Oil India Limited  B. Assessment of Compensation for the Survivors  
60 - 84 60 60 64 64 71   75 78  79 Chapter VI Conclusion A. Preliminary Inferences B.  Interim Measures 85 - 89 85 86  

--- PAGE 4 ---
 
3  
 
Chapter – I  A. INTRODUCTION  1. The Constitution of this Committee of Experts by the Hon’ble National Green Tribunal, Principal Bench, New Delhi (hereinafter referred to as the Hon’ble NGT) is in response to the blowout on 27.05.2020 and subsequent explosion on 09.06.2020 at an Oil India Limited (hereinafter referred to as OIL) well in Baghjan (hereinafter referred to as Well Baghjan-5), located in the district of Tinsukia, in the State of Assam, India. 2. The Order dated 24.06.2020, constituting the Committee of Experts was passed in O.A No.43/2020/EZ titled Bonani Kakkar -Vs- Oil India Limited & Ors. and O.A No.44/2020/EZ titled Wild Life and Environment Conservation Organisations -Vs- Union of India & Ors. The Applications inter-alia raise allegations of failure and negligence on part of Respondent Authorities including OIL in preventing the blowout and mitigating its impact. In both these applications, the Hon’ble NGT was satisfied that substantial questions relating to the environment were involved and therefore, called for consideration by the Hon’ble NGT under Sections 14 and 15 of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) Act, 2010. The Hon’ble NGT was therefore pleased to issue notice in both these applications vide Order dated 24.06.2020 and also constituted a Committee of Experts (hereinafter referred to as the Committee) to look into the matter with the following composition : 
Hon’ble Mr. Justice B.P. Katakey, former Judge of the Gauhati High Court  Chairperson Member Secretary, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB)  Member A senior expert from Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)  Member Dr. Sarbeswar Kalita, Professor and Head of the Department of Environment Science, Guwahati University  Member Shri Abhay Kumar Johari, IFS (Retired), Former Member, Biodiversity Board  Member Shri Ajit Hazarika, Ex- Chairman, ONGCL  Member Member Secretary / Senior Scientist, Assam State Pollution Control Board Member (PCB, Assam)  Member District Magistrate, Tinsukia District, Assam (DC, Tinsukia)  Member  

--- PAGE 5 ---
 
4  
 
3. The Member Secretary, CPCB was designated as the nodal agency for coordination while the PCB, Assam and the DC, Tinsukia were directed to provide all logistic support including personal protection equipment (PPE) in relation to the COVID 19 pandemic and security to the members of the Committee. 4. The Committee has been vested with the mandate to visit and inspect the site in question and examine the following aspects vide the Order dated 24.06.2020 : i. Cause of gas and oil leak ; ii. Extent of loss and damage caused to human life, wildlife, environment ; iii. Damage and health hazard caused to the public ; iv. Whether any contamination has been caused to water, air and soil of the area of the oil well and its vicinity ; v. Extent of contamination of water of the Dibru river due to the oil spill ; vi. For the purpose of (iv) and (v) above, it may be necessary to get the air quality monitored and, samples of soil and ground water of the area as well as the water of river Dibru downstream of the oil spill tested ; vii. Impact on the eco sensitive zone of the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park and Maguri-Motapung Wetland ; viii. Impact on agriculture, Fishery and domestic animals in the area ; ix. Whether there were any mitigation measure put in place by OIL to offset the incidents such as the one in question ; x. Persons responsible for the fire incidents and the cause of failure to prevent  the incident ; xi. Assessment of compensation for the victims and cost of restitution of the damage caused to property and the environment ; xii. Preventive and remedial measures ; xiii. Any other incidental or allied issues. 5. While dealing with the above questions, the Committee has been given the liberty to dwell on action which has been taken thus far, by either the Government or OIL, or any other agency and the expenditure which has been incurred towards mitigation. The Hon’ble NGT has also directed that opportunity may also be provided to the Respondent OIL to submit its views and submissions. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
 
5  
 
6. Additionally, as stated in para 15 of the Order dated 24.06.2020, the Committee was given the liberty to induct any new member or seek opinion from any other expert / experts or institute / institutions including the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun ; if felt necessary. Accordingly, Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research- North East Institute of Science and Technology (CSIR- NEIST); Council of Scientific and Industrial Research- National Environmental Engineering Research Institute have been inducted as member institutions to lend their expertise and support to the Committee. 7. The Committee has also appointed two research associates to assist the Committee in its work namely Dr. Pranjal Bezbaruah and Ms. Abantee Dutta. Dr. Pranjal Bezbarua is an Ecologist and former Guest Faculty at the Department of Environmental Science, Gauhati University. Dr. Bezbarua holds an M.Sc. in Botany (Specialization in Ecology) and a Ph.D. in Botany from Gauhati University. Ms. Abantee Dutta is a lawyer, peace practitioner and researcher based in Guwahati, Assam. Ms. Dutta holds an LL.M. from the University of Melbourne, Australia and an M.Sc. in Conflict Analysis and Research from the Jimmy & Rosalyn Carter School of Peace & Conflict Resolution, George Mason University, USA. 8. In compliance with the Order dated 24.06.2020 passed by the Hon’ble NGT, the Preliminary Report presents the progress, assessment and findings of the Committee, till date. The discussions, observations and findings of the Preliminary Report are based primarily on secondary data that have been gathered since the communication of the aforesaid Order dated 24.06.2020. The discussions presented in the Preliminary Report pertains to the methodology adopted by the Committee in the performance of its task, the reasons for the blowout on 27.05.2020 and explosion on 09.06.2020; the environmental and regulatory violations that have emerged from the primary assessment; ongoing review of the environmental damage caused by the blowout based on secondary research/data and the interim compensation to the affected families and individuals. To permit adequate time for the preparation of the Preliminary Report and review, information collection after 21.07.2020, was not considered for this Report. The Committee will continue to consider the issues discussed in this Report as it carries out the remainder of the assigned task. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
 
6  
 
9. Be it stated herein that on 22.07.2020, another explosion occurred at the same site which injured three experts engaged by OIL to douse the fire that has been raging since 09.06.2020. The Committee has called for immediate reports from both the Office of the District Administration and OIL, which are awaited. However, the Committee has received telephonic information, both from the Office of the District Administration and OIL, that the three experts had suffered minor injuries while removing a spool from the well head. It has been further informed that operations to douse the fire will resume from today i.e. 24.07.2020. The Committee will, however, review the causes of the second explosion and report its findings in its subsequent Report.  ***

--- PAGE 8 ---
 
7  
 
Chapter – II  METHODOLOGY AND ANALYSIS OF REPRESENTATIONS,  REPORTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  A. Methodology  1. The current COVID 19 pandemic and consequent lockdown in Assam coupled with the ongoing floods in Assam had placed severe constraints in the working of the Committee. However, the urgency of the matter impelled the Committee to undertake its deliberations through telephone and videoconferencing on a regular basis since the date of its constitution. This has enabled the Committee to report critical progress upon the completion of 30 days in order to initiate further follow up so that a substantial portion of the mandate may be completed before the next date of hearing. 2. In fulfilling its mandate, the Committee has sought to adopt an inclusive approach and invited views, opinions and suggestions from all affected persons and stakeholders through a Public Notice dated 05.07.2020. Due to the paucity of time, the Public Notice was published in English, although it has been widely circulated in both print and broadcast media including vernacular dailies and all the local news channels. The Public Notice has garnered much attention and the Committee has received an overwhelming response, specifically from the residents of Baghjan. At their request, therefore, the Committee has extended the time for receiving representations/ recommendations and has also initiated steps to publish the Public Notice in Assamese. 3. Apart from issuing the Public Notice, the Committee has interacted with several stakeholders including representatives of the local communities such as the Baghjan Gaon Milonjyoti Yuba Sangha, environmental action groups and NGOs with domain expertise such as Aaranyak etc. The Committee, on the recommendation of the Petitioner Bonani Kakkar, has also consulted and received representation and recommendations from environmental scientists including Prof. B.C. Choudhury, Dr. Asad Rahmani, Dr. Ritesh Kumar, Dr. Ranjan Kumar Das and sought it proper to call for records/opinion from various institutions with expertise and resources in those specialized areas. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
 
8  
 
4. Additionally, the Committee is engaging with OIL. Multiple queries have been raised starting from 29.06.2020 onwards. Opportunity has also been provided to OIL to furnish their views and submissions with regard to the questions that are subject matter of the present reference. No additional views/submissions have been made by OIL, till date, although they have attempted to respond to the specific queries raised by the Committee. The Committee will continue to engage with OIL in this regard. Additionally, the Committee has been engaging with the Government of Assam, specifically the Department of Environment and Forest, the Central Pollution Control Board, Pollution Control Board, Assam, Assam State Biodiversity Board, CSIR- NEIST, whose responses have been valuable in the writing of this Preliminary Report. The Committee will continue to engage with these stakeholders. The information gathered till date from the aforesaid stakeholders including OIL form the basis of the discussions contained in Chapters III onwards of this Report. 5. The Committee has been unable to visit Well Baghjan -5 and its neighboring areas inspite of having scheduled two site visits till date. This has been due to the combined factors of the ongoing lockdown in Assam due to the evolving COVID 19 situation, the ongoing floods and health challenges of few of the Committee members, including the Deputy Commissioner, Tinsukia who has unfortunately tested positive of COVID 19 during this time. However, the Committee has gathered valuable material and information through carrying out extensive desk research combined with a thorough review of secondary data made available through reports and documents received from various stakeholders. Such reports including those of the three Committees constituted by the Government of Assam including the Expert Committee headed by Shri M.K. Yadava, reports of the Gaonburahs (Village heads) of the concerned villages, called for through the Office of the District Administration and Wildlife Institute of India (hereinafter referred to as WII) which have provided some perspective on the ground situation. This has been supplemented by the views and opinion received from representatives of the local community, few of which are summarized in the following section. The Committee, upon the submission of this Preliminary Report, is scheduled to undertake a site visit soon, the date of which will be fixed in consultation with the DC, Tinsukia.   

--- PAGE 10 ---
 
9  
 
B. Analysis of Representations, Reports and Recommendations   This section provides a concise summary of selected submission made by representatives of the local community including affected families and individuals. The section also presents some of the observations and recommendations made by few environmental scientists. The information gathered from these representations and reports substantially informs the subsequent sections on ‘Assessment of Damages’ and ‘Interim Compensation’ contained in Chapter V of this Report. Niranta Gohain, an Environmentalist, Entrepreneur and a Resident of Dibru-Saikhowa  1. In his representation dated 12.07.2020, Shri Gohain mentioned that the concerned oil well has been established illegally without mandatory prior permissions which are needed such as Environmental Clearance, the Consent to Establish and Consent to Operate etc. No public hearings/consultations were held too. He further stated that since OIL began operation, it has adversely impacted the rich cultural life of the indigenous residents and the rich biodiversity of the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park and the Maguri-Motapung Beel. He has stated that OIL has not evinced any concern for the health of local residents. The drinking water available from tubewells has become undrinkable because of an odour after the blowout apart from new forms of disease creeping up among the population. He demands that till the fire is extinguished, proper camps must be arranged. Further, the farmers whose lands have been permanently damaged must be given adequate compensation. In his estimate, land in the radius of 5-6 kms of the Well Baghjan-5 will be non-cultivable for the next 20 or more years. The aquatic animals in the Maguri-Motapung wetland have also been completely damaged. 2. Shri Gohain emphasized that the eco-tourism industry in Natun Rongagorha village has been destroyed completely and the people involved in this industry must be given adequate compensation. By involving environmental workers and local population, a project worth 100 crores must be undertaken to reclaim the ecology. Further, there has been an irreversible impact on the rich biodiversity in the area. He expressed concern over the Central Asian Flyway which is over the area of the blowout as the migratory routes of birds may get impacted. Additionally, he mentioned that individuals who could not be accommodated in the relief camps organised by OIL and 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
10  
 
the Government of Assam are still staying in the villages and are suffering from acute food shortage. No measures regarding COVID 19 are being taken in the relief camps which have been set up by the Government of Assam. For example, in the relief camp at Guijan Higher Secondary School and Guijan Middle English School, only 5 toilets are available for 2000 residents. Government guidelines mandate that at least 66 toilets should have been available for so many residents. No measures for registration of residents in these camps are available. Adequate compensation must be provided for such a situation. 3. The representation also enclosed short transcripts of 83 interviews with residents of 11 villages in the vicinity of the site of incident. All of these interviewees have reported health related impacts of the blowout and ecology related impacts. Some second-order impacts such as damage to homes due to tremors from the blowout, impact on children’s education has also been widely reported. Of the 83 interviewees enclosed in the Report, 44 interviewees reported both health and ecology related impacts while 12 interviewees reported damage to ecology specifically. One of the interviewees, as mentioned in his Report, also claimed that the well blowout had damaged the area culturally and its heritage had been completely dismantled. All the interviewees unanimously mention some form of adverse health impact such as breathing difficulty, headache from the incessant sound from the well, damage to cultivation, polluted drinking water etc. Many local residents also report heavy damage to homes from the earth tremors generated by the well blowout. In areas closer to the Well Baghjan-5, such as Baghjan village, the effects on flora, fauna and human life have been disturbing. All 4 testimonies from Baghjan village, mentioned in the Report, concur that livestock have died after eating grass/fodder contaminated with condensate. Common local species such as hornbills, tortoise, snakes have been dying/disappearing in large numbers. In fact, dead carcasses of some animals have been floating in nearby water bodies. 4. Further, the representation dated 27.07.2020 was made by Shri Gohain along with 10 other residents of the affected area which raised concern over the condensate from the well blowout that has affected the habitat of many migratory species of birds and damaged grasslands. The representation also provides detailed recommendations for reviving the eco- tourism sector in the area. 

--- PAGE 12 ---
 
11  
 
5. An additional representation dated 21.07.2020 provides a comprehensive summary of the ongoing and future operations of OIL in Baghjan and its neighboring areas. The representation emphasizes the fact that the condensate from Well Baghjan-5, are polluting the agricultural lands and households within five to six kilometres radius of the said rig. People experiencing the impact of the condensates over their area remain unaware of the effect of the condensates on them. The Government of Assam or OIL authorities are yet to inform the people about possible impacts of condensate on their life and property and the precautions that are essential while dealing with condensate spills. Although it was apparent that houses were at the risk of catching fire due to spillage of the condensate around Well Baghjan-5, the authorities have not informed the neighbouring residents or made adequate arrangements for evacuation of their belongings. 6. The representation further mentions that many of these people belonging to Baghjan and Natun Rongagorha village have refused to stay at the relief camps due to the fear of testing COVID 19 positive and poor facilities in these camps. They prefer to remain at home despite facing hardships due to intense tremors and loud sound emanating from Well Baghjan-5. Further, affected families who are not living in these camps due to the above-mentioned conditions are not getting their daily rations or compensation from the authorities. He has requested that an investigation be launched immediately to inquire into the management of the relief camps. Since the affected people have no access to livelihood opportunities, the authorities should ensure that all the affected villages in the area are provided with daily allowance and ration till the blowout and the fire from Well Baghjan-5 is controlled. The representation reported on the unfortunate suicide of Shri Sukleshwar Neog, a resident of Baghjan triggered due to the ongoing hardships faced by the affected villagers. Monoj Hazarika, S/o Shri Rajani Hazarika, resident of Village: Baghjan (aerial distance of 1km from the site), P.S: Baghjan, District: Tinsukia, Assam  1. One of the representations received from a resident of Baghjan village has outlined several issues being faced on the ground in the aftermath of the blowout and explosion. According to Shri Hazarika, cultivable land and production has been heavily 

--- PAGE 13 ---
 
12  
 
damaged due to the condensate since 27.05.2020. Even tea gardens which are in the harvesting phase have suffered huge damage because of the oil rain. Paddy for the whole year has been destroyed due to the condensate which has settled on the fields. The damage to agriculture is compounded by the fact that the feeding areas/grass for domestic animals have been damaged due to the condensate and they have been starving as a result. 2. The economic damage to the area is also equally severe as large scale damage to roads has been caused from the heavy vehicles which have been moving incessantly since the blowout. In addition, main roads remain sealed since the incident. Because of the constant tremors, heavy damage to infrastructure and homes has been seen. 3. School going children and students are bearing the brunt of the incident as they have not been able to study from the incessant noise and tremors. Constant tremors have increased physical and mental stress apart from damaging the Tamul-Bamboo trees. The incessant and loud noise trigger anxiety and depression among the local residents. Shri Hazarika suggests that an allowance of at least Rs.500/- per day, till normalcy is restored, is essential for the local population. Dr. Ranjan Kumar Das, Associate Professor and Head of the Department, Department of Geography, Tinsukia College, Tinsukia, Assam 1. Dr. Das has provided his report on the basis of his long-term research on the grassland birds in Dibru-Saikhowa National Park. Apart from providing a detailed description of the importance of the Maguri-Motapung wetland ecosystem and the various vulnerable species according to the IUCN Red Data Book, Dr. Das has also provided an assessment of the damages through six field visits to the Maguri-Motapung wetland. 2. In his perspective, the first phase of the damage happened during the period from 27.05.2020 to 08.06.2020 when the toxic gases with condensate were being blown out. In this first phase, the condensate and the spill affected all forms of life within a      2 kms radius while the effects of the gases could be felt even at a distance of more than  

--- PAGE 14 ---
 
13  
 
9 kms. In his assessment, within the 2 kms radius, all the phytoplankton and zooplankton were directly affected while there were coatings of oil film on plant life, water bodies, agricultural fields, gardens and manmade structures. The grasslands have been severely affected and most of the grassland bird species enlisted in the IUCN Red Data Book who were breeding have abandoned their nests without hatching. The table included by Dr. Das is reproduced herein below : Table 1: List of the breeding grassland birds of Maguri-Motapung grassland and their IUCN status  
Species Scientific Name Status in IUCN Red Data Book Swamp Francolin Francolinus gularis Vulnerable Marsh Babbler Pellorneum palustre Vulnerable Jerdon’s Babbler Chrysomma altirostre Vulnerable Black-breasted Parrotbill Paradoxornis flavirostris Vulnerable Swamp Prinia Prinis cinerascens Near Threatened  3. Dr. Das states that there has been immense damage to aquatic habitat with the death of many fishes, herpetofauna and insects reported with their carcasses floating on the water. A carcass of the endangered Gangetic Dolphin (Platansita gangetica) has been collected from the Maguri-Motapung wetland. It also indicates that the oil condensates have been dispersed to longer distances. 4. In the second phase, that is, from 09.06.2020 onwards, the fire which broke out led to immense damage to the local population and their homes, apart from small tea gardens which were completely burnt down. The grasslands on the south-western side and the western side have been impacted by the fire and during his field survey, it was observed that bird density and diversity within a 1km radius had reduced substantially. It was noted that not a single threatened bird species in the IUCN Red Data Book were seen as most of their habitats have been badly affected by the fire. As on 14.07.2020, even after three waves of floods, oil sleek and condensate could be observed in the grassland habitats. 

--- PAGE 15 ---
 
14  
 
5. In conclusion, Dr. Das suggests that there should be a total ban on further oil drilling in and around the Maguri-Motapung wetland and Dibru-Saikhowa National Park along with the expansion of the Eco-Sensitive Zone of the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park. In this regard, the Hon’ble Supreme Court’s Order of 10 kms of Eco-Sensitive Zone should be followed. He suggests that, there has to be proper restoration planning for both the Maguri-Motapung wetlands and its corresponding grasslands with priority being given to community-based conservation and development of eco-tourism as an alternative means of livelihood. Green Vision Northeast, a local environmental action group 1. Vide their representation dated 12.07.2020, the Green Vision Northeast       state that all the authorities such as the Forest Department, Pollution Control Board, Assam etc. are equally responsible for allowing oil drilling, by violating environmental laws in a “Eco-Sensitive Zone” such as the Dibru-Saikhowa area. EIA protocols such as the Environment Management Programme (EMP) have never been implemented in the area by OIL inspite of having obtained permission under the EIA regime. They further state that the present assessment of compensation has not considered all the people who have suffered damage. List of various villages which have not been considered have been enclosed along with the representation. Imon Abedin, B.Sc. (Zoology Hons.) Student, Tinsukia College 1.  The representation provides a description of the site of incident and provides documentation of the immediate aftermath and the impact on the ecology including human life. It recommends that a proper impact assessment be carried out in the surrounding areas. To this end, OIL, should work together with the locals to recover the damage once the fire is contained and also help to establish eco-tourism and indigenous fishing practices in the area. Some of the photographs included in the representation are reproduced herein below :  

--- PAGE 16 ---
 
15  
 
 
    
  


--- PAGE 17 ---
 
16  
 
 
   Aaranyak, organisation working in biodiversity conservation in Assam 1. Among the recommendations forwarded in Aaranyak’s detailed report is a suggestion for a comprehensive post-disaster impact assessment involving creditable agencies and international, national and local experts. Such an assessment should also encompass the views of the local communities. In line with the other expert opinion received by the Committee, Aaranyak has suggested an integrated ecological restoration plan including bioremediation of hydrocarbons polluting the soil. This restoration, they suggest must be implemented over a long period of time (at least five years) to restore the previous status of the wetland. On the role of the Government and OIL, it has been suggested that livelihoods of the affected people must be rehabilitated instead of     short-term cash benefits. Health insurance cover for people residing within 10 kms radius of oil exploration sites should also be the responsibility of the Government and user agencies. 


--- PAGE 18 ---
 
17  
 
The Wildlife Institute of India, Autonomous Institution of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Government of India 1. The Wildlife Institute of India (hereinafter referred to as WII), is an apex research institution under the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, Government of India and has been inducted as a Member of the Committee. With expertise in the ecosystem of Dibru-Saikhowa and having adequate research resources at its disposal, the Committee deemed it fit to request the WII to provide an expert assessment of the site in relation to the Terms of Reference. A survey team from the WII had been carrying out a reconnaissance survey in the affected area from 29.05.2020 to 04.06.2020 based on which a Preliminary Report has been placed before the Committee. An update to this Report was sent on 17.06.2020 bringing on record certain additional observations and also intimating about the status of the contaminant survey and the biodiversity assessment. Several observations from the Report are of interest. It is conclusive to the WII that there has been mass mortality of species and the contaminants from the oil, having universal impact on the high biodiversity area. According to the assessment of the WII, the toxins which are being released generally have long persistence in soils and sediments, which apart from affecting current life conditions of the local population will also continue to be a serious health risk in future. The WII is of the opinion that there is no mitigation plan in place. It therefore recommends that a comprehensive impact assessment of the accident be done, given the high seismic activity in the area. It has also recommended that the approved wells and exploration projects in the area be kept in abeyance till potential impact assessment and adequate disaster management capabilities are in place along with sufficient technology and human resources. 2. The impact assessment report dated 15.07.2020 by the WII provides a detailed analysis of the extent of damage in the aftermath of the blowout and spill. The results indicate that large scale damage has been caused to the biodiversity in the area. The tests and evaluations carried out by the WII conclude that high levels of carcinogenic Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAH) pollutants have been released into the ecosystem, and will remain in the system for a long time. The concentration of carcinogenic PAH was found to be significantly higher than other studies in India and 

--- PAGE 19 ---
 
18  
 
other parts of the world. Concentration of PAH found in fishes collected from Maguri-Motapung wetland was found to be 10-100 fold higher than earlier reported concentration in India and other parts of the world. The impact of this will be long term as these pollutants will leach into the ground and contaminate ground water. 3. It has also recorded that the sound pollution in the area is excessive and is detrimental to both human and animal life. The noise level in 12 kms radius of 70db or above is higher than standard limits set by WHO and CPCB and is not suitable for both human and animal life. In prolonged period, it may result in hearing loss and many other ailments apart from affecting most of the birds and mammal species. 4. High mortality has been reported among fishes, insects, herpetofauna and insects including the decline of Gangetic River Dolphin Population in the area. A mortality among the Gangetic Dolphin Population due to oil poisoning in the area has also been reported. It has been found that encounter rate of Gangetic River Dolphin in the area has decreased by 89% post of the blowout. While dolphin presence was recorded in Lohit and Dibru areas, no recording of dolphin sound in Maguri-Motapung areas, which was the most impacted site. It has been found that bird species richness increases with the increase in distance from oil spill site. While the overall richness and abundance of fishes decline with decrease in dissolved oxygen at different sites, which in turn was a result of the oil spill. There was a similar impact on insect populations which were found in much less number closer to the impact site. 5. The results indicate that the levels of Dissolved Oxygen in the Lohit, Dibru and Maguri-Motapung was lower than the minimum recorded value of Brahmaputra and barely above CPCB class A limits. The levels of Dissolved Oxygen had decreased from the day of blowout till the last date on 22.06.2020. In the opinion of the WII, the Maguri-Motapung wetland is the worst affected with large scale death of aquatic fauna. 6. In conclusion, WII has recommended detailed remedial measures, including a long-term study to understand the long term impact of the spill and blowout impact on the environment of Maguri-Motapung wetland and Dibru-Saikhowa National Park as well as on the health and socio-economic conditions of local communities. They also 

--- PAGE 20 ---
 
19  
 
suggest re-evaluating the continuance of oil drilling and extraction in such a fragile ecosystem with critically endangered species such as the White winger Wood Duck. A copy of the Report titled “Impact of oil well blowout at Baghjan oil field, Assam and resulting oil spill, on surrounding landscape” by the Wildlife Institute of India dated 15.06.2020 is appended hereto as Appendix-A. Wetlands International South Asia, represented by Dr. Ritesh Kumar, Director 1. Based on experience of working in similar ecosystems, Wetlands International has provided several observations and recommendations in its detailed letter to the Committee. Noting that floodplain wetlands like the Maguri-Motapung wetland are crucial to functioning of connected river ecosystems, it has been pointed out that the damage due to condensate in the wetland will also directly impact the Dibru River ecosystem. It has also been observed in the letter, that in the present case, it seems that the oil spill has mixed with the wetland soil thereby leading to the conclusion that the impacts will be persistent and long term. It has provided detailed suggestions for restoration of the wetland as per the principles and guidelines for wetland restoration adopted by Resolution VIII. 16 (2) of the Ramsar Convention. Recommendations have also been provided on a comprehensive ecological monitoring of the Maguri-Motapung wetland so as to assess the impact of the oil spill and fire. On the policy front, the organisation is of the view that Notification of the Maguri- Motapung wetland under the Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2017 will ensure that clear management rules are put in place. In conclusion, it has recommended that all oil and gas related activity in and around the area of influence of the wetland and the Dibru Saikhowa National Park may be prohibited due to the risk they pose to sensitive ecosystems. Prof. B.C Choudhury, Executive Trustee, Wildlife Institute of India and Retired Faculty and Scientist, Wildlife Institute of India 1. Prof. Choudhury has forwarded his opinion on the basis of his training and experience as a wildlife and wetland biologist, with familiarity to the ecosystem of the Dibru-Saikhowa- Maguri-Motapung complex. After a detailed assessment of the reports generated by the WII team, Prof. Choudhury has provided several key recommendations 

--- PAGE 21 ---
 
20  
 
to the Committee. Among others, he suggests the creation of an expert study group led by the Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati to determine the impact zone and suggest preventive measures. He has also suggested a framework for a multi-disciplinary committee headed by an Officer of the Forest Department to develop a restoration plan, the cost of which will have to be borne by OIL on the principle of Polluter’s Pay. On the economic front, he has suggested the creation of a committee by the office of the District Administration of Tinsukia and Dibrugarh to ascertain the economic loss to local communities and recommend compensation packages and other restoration measures to be funded by OIL. Prof. Choudhury is of the opinion that identification and creation of a sensitive Ecological Safety Zone in and around the Dibru-Saikhowa and Maguri-Motapung wetland and encompassing adjoining protected areas complex is the need of the hour, so that the expansion of volatile and sensitive hydrocarbon and other developmental projects are not permitted. Dr. Asad R. Rahmani, Former Director, Bombay Natural History Society 1. Dr. Rahmani has forwarded his opinion on the basis of his expertise in the field of biodiversity conservation and his previous work in the area of Dibru-Saikhowa       and the Maguri-Motapung wetland. He has provided several suggestions for a comprehensive framework to protect the Dibru-Saikhowa-Maguri-Motapung complex in a holistic manner by ensuring both restitution and restoration of the damaged ecosystems in the area. Apart from expansion of eco-sensitive zone of Dibru-Saikhowa to include areas like Maguri-Motapung, Poba Reserve Forest, Kobo and Amarpur chaporis. He advocates for a complete ban on drilling in and around the complex. Among others, he also suggests that the Maguri-Motapung wetland be declared in the protected area network along with the formulation of an integrated management plan for the wetland considering river landscape interaction. This could also be facilitated by notifying the Maguri-Motapung wetland under the Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2017. Noting that the risk assessment in the Environmental Impact Assessment had been downplayed, Dr. Rahmani recommends that a fresh risk and hazard assessment be carried out.  ***

--- PAGE 22 ---
 
21  
 
CHAPTER – III GEO ENVIRONMENT OF BAGHJAN AND ITS NEIGHBOURING AREAS A. Location 1. Baghjan is located in the Doomdooma Revenue Circle of the district of Tinsukia in the State of Assam, India. It is situated 20 kms away from the Sub-Divisional Headquarter Doomdooma and 50 kms away from the District Headquarter Tinsukia. The Tinsukia district, located in the north corner of the Upper Brahmaputra is characterized by flood plains, beels / wetlands and swamps and occasional highlands. The area may be divided into three distinct physiographic zones stretching parallel to the Brahmaputra River including the active flood plain and ‘charland’ / sandbars, the middle plain and the southern foothills. 
 Fig.1 : Map of Baghjan Area and its surroundings. (Source: Map prepared by Prasanna Boruah, Sr. Scientific Officer, ARSAC)  2. Baghjan and surrounding areas are flanked by the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park (hereinafter referred to as the DSNP) and Biosphere Reserve in the north to north west and Maguri-Motapung wetland complex in the south under the district of Tinsukia. Eastern side of the area is covered by Baghjan Tea Garden and Diamuli Tea Garden. This landscape lies in close proximity with the Eastern Himalayas and is characterized 


--- PAGE 23 ---
 
22  
 
as an Important Bird Area (IBA) and Endemic Bird Area. It lies below the periphery of the DSNP comprising an area of 340 km2 which is the core of the larger Dibru-Saikhowa Biosphere Reserve (hereinafter referred to as the DSBR) and spans over 765 km2 (Mathur, 2018). 3. There are several oil and gas based wells of OIL as well as related infrastructure like pipeline in Baghjan and surrounding areas. It is worth mentioning here that Well Baghjan-5, which is site of the blowout on 27.05.2020 and explosion on 09.06.2020 constitutes both parts of the Assam Arakan basin and the Indo Burma Biodiversity Hotspot. Additionally, it is at a distance of 1.46 kms aerial distance from the DSNP Eco-Sensitive Zone boundary GPS Serial No.15 (Aaranyak, 2020). On the other hand, Maguri-Motapung wetland is located less than 1.75 kms south to the above-mentioned Gas and Condensate Well. The connection of the water from Dibru River to DSNP increases the possibility of pollutants spreading to the National Park in the downstream specially during flood period. Bherjan-Padumoni-Borajan Wild Life Sanctuary is south to the Baghjan area and the Maguri-Motapung wetland. The Bherjan segment has an aerial distance of about 6.2 kms from the Baghjan (ERM, 2018) while it is aerially 12 kms from Padumoni segment.  
 Source: Report submitted by Aaranyak to the Committee 


--- PAGE 24 ---
 
23  
 
  
 Source: Pre-feasibility report for Drilling of ERD Wells in Baghjan Area in Tinsukia district in the State of Assam, OIL India Ltd. 
4. Well Baghjan-5, falls primarily within the depositional plains of the River Brahmaputra and its tributaries. The key physical features include flood prone areas which lie in the riverbed of the Dangori River and in the periphery of the southern part of the DSNP. The Dibru River, a main river channel of the Brahmaputra which flows in the northern side of the area separates the DSNP and the Well Baghjan-5. I. Land use a. Agriculture land and settlements 1. The area primarily comprises of rural area with settlements, homestead plantations and agricultural lands of Dighaltarang and Baghjan villages dotted by many small tea gardens on the eastern side of the area including the Baghjan, Diamuli, Longswai and Dighaltarang Tea Gardens. Human habitation and agricultural land are located at the fringes of Well Baghjan-5, DSBR and Maguri-Motapung wetland. 2. The landscape has tropical monsoon climate with a hot and wet summer and cool and usually dry winter. The annual rainfall ranges from 2300mm to 3800mm which occurs mainly in the months of June, July, August, and September. The average coldest and warmest temperature of the area ranges from 7 to 34°C (Nongmaithem et al., 2016). The land use pattern of Baghjan area shows that majority of the land (60%) is used for agricultural purposes with paddy and tea gardens (Aaranyak, 2020). Open mixed jungle 


--- PAGE 25 ---
 
24  
 
and scrub cover an area of 2% and 3% of the total area. The Dibru river is the main river channel flowing southwest towards Tinsukia. The Baghjan and its neighboring areas are also dominated by different villages namely Baghjan village, Baghjan NC, Dighal Tarang, Natun Rangagora, Gotong, Motapung, Dhelakhat, Hatiputi (Aaranyak, 2020) under Tinsukia district. According to the People’s Biodiversity Register of Hapajan Anchalic Panchayat Biodiversity Management Committee (hereinafter referred to as BMC) (2016), the agricultural biodiversity, domesticated biodiversity and wild biodiversity (aquatic and terrestrial) are very rich in villages and surrounding areas. Different types of indigenous rice varieties, fruits, vegetables, wild plants, wild medicinal and edible plant species and fish species are documented by the BMCs and managed by local villagers. Different tea gardens mentioned above and homestead tea gardens (by individual) also refuse different types domesticated biodiversity elements in the area. Majority of the families are dependent on agricultural activities and allied livelihood. Agricultural activities rely on the ecosystem services (Bhatta et al., 2016) of the flood plain (for fertile soil, supply of soil moisture etc.) of the area. Homestead tea gardens are an important source of livelihood for some people. Livestock rearing is also a common source of income in the area. 3. The population of the above-mentioned villages and surrounding areas is dominated by ethnic communities such as Moran, Motak, Koch, with an average household size of 4.9 (Bhatta et al., 2016) and tea tribes of greater Assamese society etc. With increasing awareness about benefit of ecosystem services like ecotourism, some local groups run eco-resorts, taking the profession of nature guides, providing boat services in and around DSNP and Maguri-Motapung wetland. A scan of the data provided by the office of the District Administration indicate that most of the villagers in Baghjan village possess about 2 kathas to 10 bighas of land though most of them have only 1 to 3 bighas of land. However, this information will be different for other villages and would require further verification. b. Forests  Baghjan and its surrounding areas are mainly comprised of tropical moist mixed semi-evergreen forest, moist mixed deciduous forest, wet tall grassland, short grassland, swampy vegetation, scrub forest, (Boruah et al., 2003). The tropical semi-evergreen and deciduous forest are mainly confined to DSBR and Bherjan-Borajan-Padumoni WLS. 

--- PAGE 26 ---
 
25  
 
c. Water bodies 1. Water bodies are mainly confined to the Maguri-Motapung wetland and surrounding areas including DSNP. The Maguri-Motapung wetland lies south of Well Baghjan-5. The Maguri-Motapung wetland is in essence, a complex of floodplain wetland and is critical in the functioning of the Dibru River ecosystem. The Maguri-Motapung wetland was formed after the great Assam Earthquake of 1950 (Das, 2020). This flood plain wetland ecosystem is hydrologically connected to the three rivers Dibru-Dangori and Lohit through a complex network of branches and distributaries. The Dibru River flows through the middle of the Maguri-Motapung wetland by a system of channels which is unique due to the presence of lotic (flowing water) and lantic (standing water) ecosystems (Das, 2020). More than 80% of villagers around the Maguri-Motapung wetland have fishing and fishery related activities as the major livelihood. A large number of local people earn their livelihood from eco-tourism related activities such as running eco-resorts, acting as nature-guides, and providing boat services etc.  2. The Maguri-Motapung wetland has been declared an IBA due to its ornithological importance. It provides a habitat for several bird species on the Red List of the International Union of Conservation of Nature (hereinafter referred to as IUCN) apart from containing rich biodiversity.  
 Source: Report submitted by Aaranyak to the Committee  


--- PAGE 27 ---
 
26  
 
d. Flora 1. The flora of the area is very rich in terms of presence of DSNP Park and Biosphere Reserve and Maguri-Motapung wetland complex. A study by Botanical Survey of India indicated presence of 680 plant species belonging to 464 genera and 143 families of flowering plants (Bora et al., 2003) from DSBR. Out of 680 flowering plants, 290 species are herbs including aquatics, 152 shrubs and under shrubs species, 124 trees species, 81 species are climbers and lianas, 19 epiphytes are, 4 parasites species, 6 palms and 4 bamboos species. Amongst the orchids, Liparis mannii is catalogued as endemic to Assam (Hegde, 2000). 2. During a different survey an appreciable number of 43 species of orchids covering 25 genera have been collected and identified (Gogoi et al. 2010) from DSBR. Out of these 35 are epiphytic and 8 are terrestrial species. In the grassland near Baghjan, at least 4 ground orchid species were located (Khanajyoti Gogoi, pers. Comm.). 3. The surrounding landscape of the Baghjan area is comprised of diverse grassland communities dominated by Arundo donox, Phragmites karka, Saccharum ravaenae, Saccharum spontaneum, Imperata cylindrica (in highland). 4. The semi evergreen forest is comprised (Kalita et al., 2003) of Anthocephalus codomba, Artocarpus chama, Dillenia indica, Dipterocarpus macrocarpus, Lagerstroemia speciosa, Terminalia myriocarpa, T. bellerica, T. chebula, and different species of Syzigium species. The deciduous forest types are generally dominated by Dalbergia sissoo, Bischofia javanica, Salix tetrasperma, Dysoxylum binnectiferum , Bombax ceiba etc. 5. Aquatic vegetation of Maghuri-Motapung Beel was comprised of Eichhornia crassipes, Pistia stratiotes, Lemna major, Azolla pinnata, Ludwigia, Rumex sp., Hygroryza aristata, Trapa natans Nymphaea sp. (Noroh, 2013 ). 6. A fairly rich phytoplankton (61 species) was recorded (Noroh, 2013) from the Maguri wetland ecosystem and belonged to Chlorophyta (35 species), Bacillariophyta (13 species), Euglenophyta (7 species), Cyanophyta (5 species) and 1 species from Dinophyta. Some Phytoplankton species from Bacillariophyta are indicator of water quality and identified as oil pollution tolerant species (Bordoloi and Baruah, 2015). 

--- PAGE 28 ---
 
27  
 
e. Fauna 1. A review of existing information and site survey in Baghjan as gathered by the Committee from the Reports of various Stake holders indicates and surrounding landscape which includes DSNP and Maguri-Motapung wetlands, indicates that the area harbours around 40 species of mammals, 104 species of fish, 11 species of chelonians, 18 species of lizards and 23 species of snakes, 105 species of butterflies (WII report, 2020). The landscape provides habitat to tiger, leopard, Asian elephant, wild Water Buffalo, Hoolock Gibbon, Capped Langur, Slow Loris, Ganges River Dolphin. Amongst herpetofaunal species, it is home to the critically endangered Black Soft-shell Turtle as well as several endangered species including narrow headed Soft-shell Turtle, Assam Roofed Turtle, Schedule I species including Indian Flap-shell Turtle, Water Monitor Lizard, Indian Roofed Turtle, Burmese Rock Python and several species of range-restricted frogs (WII, 2020). 2. The Maguri wetland and surrounding water bodies that linked with DSBR recorded (Noroh, 2013) 210 species of zooplankton belonging to 78 genera and 32 families. These are from the group of Rotifera (141 species), Cladocera (49 species), Rhizopoda (11 species), Copepoda (7 species) and Ostracoda (2 species). Rotifera forms an important group of freshwater metazoans and of fish-food-organisms, and an integral link of freshwater food-webs (Sharmah et. al, 2017). 3. A total of 48 number of fish species including 5 exotic fish species belonging to 35 genera under 18 families from 7 orders is recorded from Maguri-Motapung wetland (Kalita et al., 2016). According to IUCN status of the recorded fish species, 1 species is endangered, 1 species is data deficient, 2 species are lower risk-near threatened, 39 species are lower risk- least concern and other 5 species are not evaluated. (Kalita et al., 2016). 4. The residential population of River Dolphin from Dibru visits the adjacent Maguri wetland during flood (Bania, 2011) season. As River Dolphin preys on fish, the presence of this mega fauna indicates rich diversity of the fish species in the wetland areas. 5. Around 298 species of birds have been recorded from Maguri-Motapung wetland till date (Das, 2020). The surrounding area is also habitat for both resident and 

--- PAGE 29 ---
 
28  
 
winter waterfowl and grassland birds that are globally threatened and locally near endemic. Some breeding grassland birds like Swamp Francolin, Marsh Babbler, Jerdon's Babbler, Black-breasted Parrotbill, Swamp Prinia have high conservation value (Das, 2020; Aaranyak, 2020) and depended on tall grassland of the Maguri-Motapung wetland. Dr. Ranjan Kumar Das and his team also documented important avifaunal species like Baikal Bush Warbler (Locustila davidi), White-browed Crake (Amauronis cinerea), critically endangered White-bellied Heron (Adrea insignis) White-rumped Vulture (Gyps bengalensis), Slender-billed Vulture (Gyps tenuirostris), Baer’s Pochard (Aythya baeri ) and endangered species namely White-winged Duck (Asarcornis scutulata) Black-bellied Tern (Sterna acuticauda), Yellow-breasted Bunting (Emberiza aureola) since last 10 years. Some endangered birds were seen only once or twice during this period. 6. The above observation on the biodiversity of Baghjan and surrounding areas indicates the fragility of the eco-system marked by a complex food web with the presence of micro phytoplankton to large mega fauna in the landscape that also includes human settlements. Therefore, any major disturbance like oil/gas spills may seriously affect the whole ecosystem of the landscape. 
 Fig.3: Landuse/Landcover map of Maguri-Motapung Beel (Source: Map prepared by Prasanna Boruah, Sr. Scientific Officer, ARSAC)  *** 


--- PAGE 30 ---
 
29  
 
Chapter – IV Baghjan Oilfield and Well Baghjan-5  The following section is discussed in two parts. The first part presents a comprehensive discussion on the Baghjan Oil Field and Well Baghjan-5, including the observations and findings of the Committee on the causes of the blowout and explosion of Well Baghjan-5 based on preliminary assessment. The second part presents prima facie findings on issues of compliance by OIL of Environmental safeguards as mandated under the regulatory framework. A. THE BAGHJAN OIL FIELD This section draws its analysis based on the documents and technical data furnished by OIL in pursuance of the multiple queries raised by the Committee till date. The section provides a brief summary of the historical and production background of the Baghjan field, Well Baghjan-5 while enumerating the probable causes of the blowout on 27.05.2020 and the subsequent explosion on 09.06.2020. It also recommends key safeguards that need to be implemented urgently to avert such eventualities in the near or distant future. I) Historical background of Baghjan Field 1. The Baghjan field is located in Doomdooma Revenue Circle of the district of Tinsukia in Upper Assam, about 61 Km from OIL Head office at Duliajan via Ragorh Road and NH-15 and/or via Makum Bypass, which is about 76 kms. 2. OIL discovered this field in 2003 after drilling its first exploratory Well Baghjan-1. So far, all total 10 exploratory wells were drilled, and target depth of wells are around 3800 to 4300 Mtr. The area of the Baghjan field is about 20 Sq. Km. The estimated Oil 2P Reserve is about 13.59 MM3 and estimated Recoverable Reserve is about 2.785 MM3. Non-associated estimated 2P Gas Reserve in place is 13.84 BCM and Recoverable Gas estimated as 25.60 BCM. Associated 2P gas Reserve in place estimated is 13.84 BCM and Recoverable Gas estimated as 5.99 BCM. Reservoir Pressure varies from 402 Kg/ Sq. Cm to 429.5 Kg/Sq. Cm i.e. almost Hydrostatic Pressure. There are mainly three major Hydrocarbon bearing i.e. Oil & Gas horizons found in the Baghjan Field namely ; 

--- PAGE 31 ---
 
30  
 
(i) LANGPAR, 3870 Mtr, Original Formation Pressure 422kg/cm2 (ii) LK+Th, SG III+IV and SG I+II, 3781 to 3729 Mtr, Original Reservoir Pressure Hydrostatic +10%. (iii) NARPUH, 3673 Mtr, Original estimated Reservoir Pressure Hydrostatic +10%.   All three Zones lie in the depth range of 3630 to 3900 Mtr TVD. The age of multiple sand reserves discovered are of Palaeocene – Lower Eocene Age. a. Development of Baghjan Field  The Baghjan Field development started from December 2005 after successful completion of Well Baghjan-2. and all total 16 Development wells were successfully drilled and completed. Total wells in this field are 26 Nos (10 Exploratory and 16 Development). Type of wells are (1) Vertical -1No (Baghjan -1), (2) J bend 8 Nos, (3) S profile - 17 Nos. No Horizontal or ERD wells have been drilled till date. But there is a plan to drill ERD wells to target the prospective sand lying below the DSNP, which is about 1 Km away from the main Baghjan field. b. Production History of Baghjan Field   Commercial Oil production started in December, 2005 after successful completion of Well Baghjan-2 in Bottom most sand i.e. LANGPAR sand. The Production of the field gradually increased and reached a peak production of about 910 M3/Day in March 2012. Thereafter, the Oil production showed a decline trend and reached a level of 630 m3/Day in September 2016 with increased water cut. However, after drilling few more development wells production of Oil increased to level of 1000 M3/Day in November 2017. Current production of Baghjan Field is 950 M3/day Oil, 1.29 MMSCMD Gas and 280 M3/Day water. The initial Reservoir Pressure was 422 Kg/Cm2 at a depth of 3647 Mtr which was 58 Kg/cm2 above Hydrostatic as recorded in Baghjan Well-1 in April 2003. The current Reservoir pressure is around 411.2 Kg/Cm2 at a depth of 3977 Mtr recorded in May 2020.Present Production of the Baghjan field is Oil + Condensate 950 M3/Day, Water 284 M3/day and 1.3MMSCMD Gas. Estimated Loss of Production due to blow out at Well Baghjan-5 is 90 to 95000 M3 of Gas and 10 to 15 M3 of Condensate per Day. 

--- PAGE 32 ---
 
31  
 
II.  Well Baghjan-5 1.  Well Baghjan-5 was spudded on 20.11.2006 and successful drilling to target depth of 3904 completed on 12.03.2007. This is a ‘S’ profile deviated well and 4 stage casing Policy adopted in this well. (i) 20 inch Conductor casing up to 200 Mtr and Cemented up to surface. (ii) Well then deviated from 20-inch casing shoe (KOP) and slowly built up angle to maximum 26 degree at depth 811 Mtr. measured depth and then slowly dropped the angle and it is almost vertical at measured depth at 1499 Mtr. 13 3/8 Casing was lowered up to 1500 Mtr and cemented with cement rise inside 20-inch Casing. (iii) Well was then drilled with 12 ¼ inch Bit to a depth of 3365 Mtr and lowered 95/8 inch casing Shoe at 3336.45 Mtr and cemented the casing. (iv) Well was then drilled with 8 ½ Bit to a target depth of 3904 Mtr and 5 ½ Casing was lowered.  Keeping Shoe at 3899.57 Mtr with Float Shoe at 3876.46 Mt and cemented with cement top at 3360 Mr. CBL VDL recorded and decided to complete the well in bottom most LANGPAR sand. a. Production Testing of the Well Baghjan-5 1. Initially the well was perforated at depth 3869.5Mtr. to 3872.5 Mtr. There was an immediate pressure build-up of 48 Kg/cm2 in tubing. On opening the well to well head set up (Baghjan-2) through 4 mm Bean it produced mostly gas. However, detailed production testing could not be done due to non-availability of facilities at that time. So, well was killed with 85 lbs/cu ft mud and plugged back by placing a Bridge Plug at 3868 Mtr. Subsequently, open-ended tubing was lowered to top of Bridge Plug and tested the plug at 1500 psi found ok, changed over from mud to water and tubing was pulled up to 496 Mt and well was kept shut in. 2. In March 2015, a work over rig was deployed to recomplete the well. The Bridge plug then milled and pushed down to Float Collar at 3876. CBL-VDL was recorded again from 3875 Mtr to 3263 Mtr on 29.3.2015 which showed good isolation against prospective sand and also recoded MIT log which showed no damage to casing. 

--- PAGE 33 ---
 
32  
 
The well was then perforated at depth 3869.5 Mtr to 3872.5 Mtr and set a Hydraulic Packer at 3818 Mtr but well-kept shut again due to non-availability of testing facility. 3. The well was actually put on production from September 2015 and cumulative production up to March 2020 was 191.83 MMSCM of Gas and 44180 M3 of Condensate. Recently, it was observed that the well was producing Gas from Gas Cap of BGN001 block which may lead to faster reservoir pressure drop resulting lesser recovery. So, it was decided to permanently plug back this Zone i.e. LANGPAR SAND and to recomplete the well in next upper sand called LK+Th sand at depth 3760 Mt. b. Work Over Operation of Well Baghjan-5 1. The Mobile work-over rig of M/s John Energy Ltd was deployed at Well Baghjan-5 on 19.04.2020. The objective of the Work Over was to permanently isolate the earlier producing sand i.e. LANGPAR SAND at depth 3870 Mt. Complete well in upper Lk+Th I+II sand at depth 3739 Mtr. Accordingly, this work over rig was deployed. During this work over operation, first, tubing was perforated above Packer (3818 Mtr) and well was circulated with 73 Lb/cuft sodium format brine solution and killed the well. There was no flow observed. Packer was then unset by giving pull and pulled out of hole. Carried out a trip to bottom i.e. up to 3876 Mtr and a Bridge Plug was set by Schlumberger Logging Services (hereinafter referred to as SLB) at 3865 Mtr and tested at 1000 psi and found holding. Lowered OEDP up to top of Bridge Plug and changed over well fluid by water and found well stable. Pulled out tubing. Recorded CBL-VDL–CAST from 3862 to 3600 Mtr. Though Cement Bond found poor against Zone of interest but good Bond was found above and below the objective sand. And no damage found in the casing. On 14.05.2020, a Retainer Packer was set at 3590 Mt, nearly 145 Mt above the intended perforation Zone. Lowered tubing with TSA and stabbed the retainer Packer. On 18.5.2020, Wire line 2 1/8 inch Power Enerjet Perforation Gun was then lowered by SLB through tubing and passed through the packer and perforated casing in the range 3731.5 to 3737.5 Mtr. Gun was pulled out but observed build up pressure gradually in tubing as well as in annulus of tubing and casing i.e. SITP: 4400 Psi and SICP: 3900 Psi. Shut the well and well was kept under observation. This development indicated that TSA assembly was not working as SICP of the magnitude nearly equal to SITP was observed. This was an unexpected development 

--- PAGE 34 ---
 
33  
 
and needed to be rectified. All those subsequent operations carried out were to rectify the TSA leakage problem On 21.05.2020, SLB perforated the tubing at 3574 Mtr and while perforating SLB observed there was pressure to the extent of 2200 Psi in the tubing and as they used wire line BOP during perforation so could pulled out their perforation gun after perforation of the tubing. Pumping lines were connected to the well and well was killed with 73 Lb/cuft Sodium Format Brine solution. Further, TSA was pulled out along with tubing. Mid of pulling out of Tubing while testing the well head, found WF spool was leaking. Another problem cropped up. Then, it was decided to isolate the already perforated Zone i.e. Lk+Th sand first with cement plug to repair/ replace WF spool before completing the well in the already perforated Zone of Lt+Tk sand at 3731 to 3737 Mtr. Had there been no leakage in WF spool the well could have been successfully completed with new TSA and by stabbing the already set packer at 3590 Mtr. But leakage in WF spool during testing changed the priority of operation. The Well had and other surface equipment should have been tested before perforation as per Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). c. Cement Plug Job Plan to create a safety barrier inside the casing to avoid any flow during replace/change of WF spool  It was decided to place a Cement plug at depth 1000 to 900 M. Well was stable with 73 Lb/Cuft Brine solution from 22.05- 26.05.2020. At depth 1000 Mtr casing has a deviation of nearly 26 degree. On 25.05.2020, Cement Plug job plan was planned with an instruction to give WOC 48 hrs before pulling out of string and removal of BOP. In the plan it was mentioned to lower2-7/8 inch tubing to place the plug but in actual 2-7/8 inch drill pipes were used. But this change of decision was not properly recorded in execution report. Also, plan did not mention about to tag and test of Cement Plug to check its integrity after setting of cement. Accordingly, Cement Plug was placed on 26.05.2020 and well was kept on WOC from 4 PM of 26.05.2020. However, as per written instruction of Installation Manager (hereinafter referred to as IM) to Driller Contractor after 12 hours of WOC Drill Pipes were pulled out. As per DPR of 27.05.2020, Driller recorded that he was advised telephonically by Production Engineer (hereinafter referred to as PE) to nipple down BOP after pulled out of drilled pipes from Well but it was denied by PE. But Driller removed Flow Nipple, Riser and also BOP in 

--- PAGE 35 ---
 
34  
 
the morning on 27.05.2020 and at that time no senior officers like Tool Pusher from Contractor’s side, IM or PE from OIL were present at site. After nipple down of BOP while removing the WF Spool at about 8.55 am as per DPR of 27.05.2020, Driller observed Well is flowing slowly. Driller then informed telephonically his Tool pusher about the flow from well who then informed IM and PE. As there was no safety system to close the well, IM instructed over phone to lower immediately 10 doubles of tubing probably with an idea to put back tubing hanger cone and E-Mass Tree to stop the flow. But at that moment PE suggested to lower D/P instead telephonically. Tool pusher then talked to PE over phone that with D/P it would be difficult to place tubing hanger, PE then agreed to lower tubing in doubles. He decided to lower Tubing in single. In this process of telephonic communication among senior officers ; precious time was lost and the well became very active and well fluid started gushing out with force. Though Driller tried to lower one single tubing with tubing hanger cone but could not push down, rather well force thrown out the tubing and cone and the full-fledged blowout of Well Baghjan-5 took place at 10.30 am in the morning of 27.05.2020 i.e. after 18 hours and 30 minutes of WOC. It is observed that the well gave nearly one and half hour time from start of the flow to full blow-out but precious time was lost in telephonic decision making, whatever attempt made failed to shut the Well. III. Observations and Findings by the Committee  1. The well Baghjan-5 was very successfully drilled by OIL in 2006 to a target depth of 3900 Mtr and the well was completed with 5-1/2 Production casing. This is a deviated well of ‘S’ Profile. Built up angle started from 20-inch casing shoe i.e. from 200 Mtr and maximum angle achieved at a depth of 880 Mtr and slowly angle was dropped to Zero and well became almost vertical at depth of 1499 Mtr. A horizontal drift of nearly 380 Mtr achieved. In this well, three main pay Horizons were encountered. The Bottom most sand is called Langpar Sand at a depth of 3870 Mtr, 2nd Zone is called Lk+Th sand SG III+IV and Lk+Th Sand SG I+II at depth 3781 Mtr and 3729 Mtr and 3rd Zone is called Narpuh sand at 3673 Mtr. 2. Though drilling of this well was completed in 2007 but due to non- availability of facility at site, actual production of gas and condensate started in September 2015. Initially, the bottommost zone i.e. LANGPAR Sand was perforated at 

--- PAGE 36 ---
 
35  
 
depth 3869 to 3872 Mtr and completed the well with Packer set at depth 3818 Mtr. The well so far up to March 2020 produced 192 MMSCM of Gas and 44200 M3 of Condensate. However, recently OIL found that this well was producing from Gas cap and if such production continues it will reduce the reservoir pressure and ultimately recovery of Hydrocarbon will be less. Therefore, it was decided to shut this zone permanently and to produce from 2nd Zone i.e. Lk+Th sand at  depth 3739 Mtr. Formation pressure of this Zone was estimated to be Hydrostatic +10% or so. For this purpose, the Work-over rig was deployed in this well in April 2020. Accordingly, bottom most producing zone was successfully isolated by setting a Bridge plug set at 3868 Mtr and tested at 1500 psi and found OK. Well fluid was then changed to water and found well stable. On 14.04.2020, a retainer packer was lowered through wire line and set at depth 3590 Mtr nearly 145 Mtr above the intended zone of interest. Then lowered 2-7/8 Vam Premium tubing with TSA (Tubing Seal Assembly) and stabbed the retainer packer which was set at 3590 Mtr. On 18.5.2020, SLB lowered 2-1/8 inch Power Enerjet wire line Perforation Gun through tubing and then through packer and perforated the casing at depth 3731.5 to 3737.5 Mtr. Perforating Gun could be pulled out but observed pressure build up gradually in tubing as well as in tubing annulus i.e. SITP rose to 4400 psi and SICP to 3900 psi. Actually only, SITP should have been observed, but in this well SICP was also observed almost equal to SITP which indicated two things- (i) Either Packer was leaking ; (ii) TSA was not able to properly seal the bore of the packer. 3. This was unexpected and so had to be rectified before proceeding for further action of completion. OIL decided to kill the well first and then to pull out TSA with Tubing. Accordingly, on 21.5.2020, SLB perforated the tubing at 3574 Mt and well was killed with 73Lb/cu ft Sodium Format brine solution. As per plan, TSA with Tubing was pulled out but midway decided to test the integrity of Well Head. On testing, it was found the primary and secondary seals were not holding. That became another problem in the well cropped up. As per Standard Operating Practice, the integrity of surface equipment like Well Head, BOP, its Manifold etc. are to be tested before any critical operation. Zone perforation being a critical operation testing of surface equipment should be done before perforation. Now priority came up to repair/ replace well head 

--- PAGE 37 ---
 
36  
 
before proceeding further. OIL planning group decided to place a cement plug as a secondary safety barrier(First primary safety barrier was the Hydrostatic pressure of work over fluid ie 73Lb/Cu ft sodium Format Brine in the well against the already perforated zone) as BOP had to be nipple down first before repair/replace of well Head Spool. They decided to place 200 Mt High viscous pill from 1200 to 1000 Mtr and then Cement Plug of 100 Mtr from 1000 to 900 Mtr. Plan was made to place cement plug by lowering 2-7/8 tubing but in actual 2-7/8 Slim hole Drill Pipe were used to place the Cement Plug. Why it was decided to place the 2nd safety barrier at such shallow depth when zone of perforation was at 3737 Mtr and Packer was set at depth 3590 Mtr. is uncertain. The Committee awaits the reply from OIL as to why they planned to place the cement Plug at such a shallow depth. Normally, the secondary safety barrier should had been near to the perforated zone. Secondly, in the plan of cement plug job, no tagging and testing of cement plug to check its integrity was mentioned. At the casing depth of 1000 Mtr. well was having an angle of 26 to 27 degree. Placement of a Cement Plug in a deviated casing is a very tricky job therefore, it was necessary to tag and test the plug to check its integrity. More so, it was planned as a safety barrier. In the Cement Job Execution Report as per DPR of 27.05.2020, after placing Cement Plug, Drill Pipes were pulled out from 997 Mtr to 657 Mtr (340 Mtr) and during reverse washed found two tubing volume of cement slurry surfaced. This indicated that during placement of cement plug cement slurry channeled and occupied much more height than planned of 100 Mtr. But probably nobody noticed that. In such situation, the Cement Plug should have been tagged and tested. Moreover, it was also necessary to check such plug negative pressure tested. These were not done in this well. Further, after WOC of 12 hours, as per instruction of Installation Manager (IM) D/P were pulled out of Hole by 7 am. Driller recorded in DPR of 27.05.2020, that he received instruction from Production Engineer (PE) in the morning at 7.30 am to nipple down BOP. Accordingly, Driller dismantled Riser Nipple, Spacer Spool and BOP. This was denied by PE having given that instruction to Driller. Whatever it might be, but this action at site without presence of senior officers from Contactor and OIL was a gross violation of Standard Operating Practice. Moreover, WOC was 48 hours as per plan but dismantle of BOP was done after 15-16 hours of WOC. Once BOP was removed there was practically only one safety barrier i.e. Hydrostatic Column of well fluid as integrity of cement plug as secondary safety barrier was unknown. After dismantling of BOP, well started flowing which was 

--- PAGE 38 ---
 
37  
 
noticed by Driller who immediately informed the Tool Pusher (appointed by the Contractor) at about 8.55 am, who then informed the IM and PE. IM telephonically and was advised to instruct the Driller to lower 10 doubles of tubing immediately as Tubing were stacked in doubles in stands against Monkey Board. But PE did not agree to lower Tubing rather passed instruction telephonically to lower D/P instead. Tool pusher then talked to PE that if D/P was lowered it would not be possible to lower Tubing hanger cone to shut the well. Then PE agreed to lower Tubing in double. But then Driller said it was not possible to lower Tubing in Double as D/P stands are in front of Tubing Stand. This was another mistake on the part of Driller as while stacking D/P and Tubing, both should have been stacked separately in both sides of Monkey Board. Therefore, it was decided to lower tubing in singles which was a time consuming job. In this process precious time was lost. Though Driller tried to lower/push one single Tubing with tubing hanger cone, but by that time well pressure increased to such an extent that both tubing and hanger cone were thrown out of casing. The full blowout of the Well Baghjan-5 started at 10.30 am on 27.05.2020. Though the well gave more than one hour to take some corrective measures but precious time was lost in decision making as no senior officer were at site, only telephonic discussions were going on. Moreover, nobody suggested to make attempt to put back BOP at the beginning of activity, but all thought that it would take more time. PE and Tool pusher arrived at site at 10.10 am at the verge of blowout of the well. Arrangement was then made to spray water by fire tenders to cool down the well mouth to avoid catching fire. Unfortunately, the well caught fire in the morning of 09.06.2020. Presently, ONGC, OIL and well expert M/s. Alert International are working as a team to cap the well. a.  Cause of the Accident 1. After going through the replies received from OIL to the queries raised by the commit and having reviewed the DPR from 20. 05- 27.05.2020, prima facie, the Committee could identify, pending further investigation, the following probable causes of the accident i.e. blowout of Well Baghjan-5. (i) There was a flaw in the operational plan. The decision to place a Cement Plug at a depth of 1000 Mtr in a inclined portion of the well (26 to 27degree) as a secondary safety barrier itself was flaued. The cement plug should have been placed as near to the perforated Zone and in this case near to the Packer i.e. about 100 Mtr above packer by 

--- PAGE 39 ---
 
38  
 
placing a 100 Mtr Sand plug above Packer to protect Packer from cement cutting falling during cement drilling. (ii) Planned not to tag and test the Cement Plug was another flaw in the planning of Cement Plug job. It was planned to place 100 Mtr Plug but cement slurry surfaced during reverse circulation at a depth of 655 Mtr i.e. after pulled out of D/P by about 340 Mtr. Probaby nobody read the cement plug job execution report of 27.05.2020. In such a situation, Plug should not only have been tagged and tested but also negatively tested to check its integrity of purpose as safety barrier before nipple down of BOP. This was a mandatory requirement as per the Standard Operating Procedure. (iii) Moreover, when the cement slurry starts to set, slurry loses water and static gel develops. At this time, cement column would behave like water column and reduced Hydrostatic Head. Secondly, in static condition of gas well i.e. WOC time when well fluid was static, gas bubble enters slowly from the perforated zone and gas bubbles percolated up, and expanded and burst at surface. This process continued in static condition of well at a faster rate being well fluid was brine. Same phenomenon would have been little slow in case of viscous fluid like mud. But in the process, Sp gravity of fluid in the well was reduced slowly. In this well as cement plug was placed much above the perforated zone i.e. nearly 2700 Mtr. As a result, gas bubbles diluted a long column of brine solution in the well and so there was reduction of Hydrostatic Head of brine solution which was just above formation pressure of the perforated gas zone. The combination of gas bubble phenomenon and reduction of head due to long contaminated cement plug resulted reduction of Hydrostatic head in the well after 13-14 Hours of WOC and well became active. And as there was no tested secondary safety barrier in the well after removal of BOP, well slowly started flowing and within one and half hour or so final blowout of the Well Baghjan-5 took place. This is therefore, a reason to place cement Plug near to the perforated Gas Zone to work as secondary safety barrier. (iv) Against one of the queries raised by the Committee as to why it was not planned to set retrievable Bridge Plug (RBG) as a safety barrier in place of Cement Plug, OIL replied that use of Retrievable Bridge Plug is not in practice in OIL. The Committee found this to be surprising. SLB logging contract with OIL is in place, only needed a provision in contract to use Retrievable Bridge Plug as and when required basis. Such 

--- PAGE 40 ---
 
39  
 
standard provisions in ONGC contract with SLB are there with well logging contract to utilize such services as and when required. Moreover, ONGC departmental Production Team also does this type of job departmentally. Setting of Retrievable Bridge Plug to isolate the Gas zone would had been more convenient and also time saving. (v) In the plan of cement plug job, it was mentioned WOC as 48 Hours. But in actual D/P were pulled out of casing after 12 hours of WOC and BOP was removed from well head after 15 Hours of WOC. This was a gross violation of written instructions of WOC of 48 Hours in the Plan. It is very hard to believe that Contractor Driller would act on his own to remove BOP after 15 hours of WOC against a written instruction of WOC of 48 hours unless Driller gets some instruction in writing or telephonically from someone from OIL. 2. From above discussions, it seems that Planning group and Execution team of OIL did not take the Cement Plug Job very seriously though it was placed as a secondary safety barrier before nipple down of BOP. Probably, the planning group relied mostly on primary safety barrier i.e. hydrostatic head of well fluid which was sufficient to stop any activity and cement plug was just an additional barrier, even though it failed would not matter. Therefore, it was first decided by Planning Group to place the plug at a shallower depth inside the casing, testing of the plug to check its integrity was not planned considering it was not necessary. While execution of cement plug job also nobody bothered to watch how it was placed, cement slurry channeled and rose much more height than planned and cement slurry design for this plug job was also faulty. Only cement additive Retarder was used to give longer IST without control of water loss from cement slurry after placement. Vital parameter of Compressive strength was also not measured at BHCT (Bottom Hole Circulating Temperature) of 46 degree centigrade at plug depth of 1000 MT. So plug strength was not known. 3. So, in summary we find following probable reasons of this blowout : (i) There was deficiency in understanding of the gravity of a critical operation like removal of BOP without having a confirmed and tested secondary safety barrier. 

--- PAGE 41 ---
 
40  
 
(ii) There was deficiency in proper planning of critical operations. There was a clear mismatch between Planning and its Execution at site and deviations from the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). (iii) There were serious deficiencies of proper level of supervision of critical operation at well site both from the Contractor as well as from OIL. b.  Fixation of Responsibility for the Accident 1. The Committee has undertaken a preliminary investigation of the various activities that happened in the Well Baghjan-5 during the work over operation based on written documents received from OIL, replies from OIL against our various queries through mails. Replies on further queries and personal interaction with concerned officers and OIL management are pending. At present, investigations are ongoing, and the Committee will be able to give a clear finding on whom to fix the responsibility for this accident in its subsequent Reports. c.  Immediate Preventive Measures to Avoid Similar Blowout and Explosions 1. Based on the preliminary assessment, the Committee presents the following preventive measures which are subject to ongoing investigations. i) It is pertinent to note that the handling of Gas wells is different than Oil wells. Therefore, it is necessary to have different Standard Operating Process for Gas wells. ii) Isolation of any Hydrocarbon bearing Zone by a secondary barrier must be taken very seriously and needs to be planned properly. In such well situation the safety barrier cannot be relied upon only on Hydrostatic Head of well Fluid. There ought to be proper secondary safety barrier, which are tested both positively and negatively to check its integrity before attending any critical operation in the well like nipple down of BOP. iii) Placement of secondary safety barrier must be placed as near to the perforated zone, and cannot be placed anywhere in the well. iv) Placement of Cement Plug is to be always done in the vertical portion of Casing. If required to place Cement Plug in a deviated well, either a perforated Tubing/Drill pipe shoe is to be used and the string ought to be rotated during placement of cement slurry by using swivel joint or use the swivel joint with Kelly of the Rig. After 

--- PAGE 42 ---
 
41  
 
balancing the Plug, the string needs to be pulled out slowly and while breaking the joints, Rotary is to be used to break the joint which will help cement slurry to spill all around and also to fall smoothly from inside string. Cement Slurry Design : - v) It is important to always design Cement Slurry with water loss additive to control water loss from cement slurry to bare minimum during setting of cement. Retarder may also be added to get the desired thickening time. Compressive Strength of the designed slurry are to be tested at 12hours, 24 hours and 36 hours to decide upon WOC time. Contingency Plan vi) Before doing any critical operation in well, a comprehensive contingency Plan must be in place to take immediate action to face any eventuality. In this particular well due to not having any such plan, driller at site alone was confused what to do when he observed well activity. Telephonic communication by IM to lower Tubing in Double, PE communicated to lower D/P instead. As a result, precious time was lost. Lowering of few Tubing with hanger cone would not had helped unless Xmas tree was installed. There were few probable options available to save this well. vi.a) To make an attempt to nipple up BOP again. Had the BOP been simply placed over the well head flange (7-1/16”) within the available time, bolting of flange, connecting to choke manifold, flow lines etc. could have been done during flowing well condition also. This was not attempted considering it would take much more time. vi.b) Alternately, Tubing Hanger (Cone type) could have been picked up with one single Tubing. The single tubing with cone could have been lowered and cone installed inside well head. The X-Mas Tree then placed with the X over spool, if required. Subsequently, the Crown Valve be closed and the side valves kept open for well flow to continue, if required. It is important to tight all the flange bolts. Then connect the pumping lines to flow arm of X-Mas Tree, open the valve, close side valve of X-Mas Tree and then Brine or Mud can be bulldozed to kill the well. The Committee is of the view that this operation would not have taken much time. 

--- PAGE 43 ---
 
42  
 
2. The Committee suggests the following procedure to be followed for placement of secondary safety barrier in different scenarios. a. SCENARIO-1: PERMANENT ISOLATION OF A PRODUCING ZONE.  1. Perforate the tubing above Packer and circulate the well with kill fluid i.e. to have Hydrostatic pressure more than formation pressure of the Zone. Observe the well, if stable pull out tubing string, Run in a permanent Bridge Plug with tubing and set just above the Packer or zone to be isolated. Test the Bridge Plug at 1500 to 2000 psi. If found holding. Circulate the well with water to check integrity of Bridge Plug under negative Head. Next, place a cement Plug of 50 Mtr above the Bridge Plug, tag and test the plug at 2000 Psi to ensure permanent isolation of the Zone. b. SCENARIO-2: ISOLATION OF ACTIVE PERFORATED ZONE TEMPORARILY LIKE WELL BAGHJAN-5 1. Before any critical operation like perforation of the Zone, the surface equipment like Well Head, BOP, Choke Manifold are to be tested first. In this particular well testing of these equipment were done after perforation of the zone and found Well Head seals were leaking, required to isolate the zone which was already perforated for repair or replace the Well Head. 2. Now in a well situation when well was already perforated and Packer was set above perforation like Well Baghjan-5, the Committee recommends the following steps to follow. i) Kill the well with Kill Fluid, observe the well. If stable, pull out Tubing String, lower a Tubing conveyed Retrievable Bridge Plug (RBG) with a perforated tubing single at bottom i.e. just above setting tool and set RBG just above Packer. This Packer can be retrieved after the job with tubing and reused. ii) Disengage Tubing setting tool from Packer, Test the packer at 2000 psi. If not holding, retrieve Packer and lower another Packer and reset again. Disengage setting tool from Packer and test the Plug at 2000 Psi. If found OK, displace well fluid with water to check integrity of Packer under negative Hydrostatic Head. Observe the Well for 2 to 3 Hours. If OK, replace the water in the well with Kill fluid and observe the well, if OK, 

--- PAGE 44 ---
 
43  
 
pull out string. To be in safer side, a cement Plug should also be placed at a shallower depth in vertical portion of casing. First place a high viscous Plug of 200 Mtr followed by 100 Mt Sand Plug below the intended Cement Plug. These steps are suggested before placement of Cement Plug to avoid cement cutting falling during drilling of cement at top of RBG which would require to be retrieved later. Tag and Test the Cement Plug after WOC of 24 hours. If OK, pull out string. Check contingency plan and when ready then go for dismantle of BOP by keeping constant watch on the fluid level of the well. The operation of nipple down of BOP must be done as far as possible at Day time and also in presence of senior responsible officers. c.  SCENARIO -3:  IF BOTTOM ZONE IS ISOLATED BY PERMANENT BP, NEED ARISES TO NIPPLE DOWN BOP.  i) In such situation though BP was tested positively and negatively even then the recommendation of the Committee would be to place a Cement Plug at a shallower depth in vertical portion of casing, which should be tagged and tested before nipple down of BOP.  B. COMPLIANCE OR OTHERWISE OF ENVIRONMENTAL SAFEGUARDS AND MANDATORY CONSENT  1.  Based on the aforesaid discussion and having reviewed the documents and responses received from OIL, it is evident that OIL was engaged in multiple projects with regard to the Baghjan Oil Field since 2006. Each of these projects required OIL to be compliant to the statutory requirements under existing environmental regulatory framework including the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, The Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, Hazardous Waste (Management and Handling) Rules, 1989, and more recently the Hazardous and Other Wastes (Management & Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016. The Committee is in the process of reviewing the various legislations / rules etc. along with the documents furnished by the Department of Environment & Forest, Government of Assam, the Central Pollution Control Board, the Pollution Control Board, Assam, Assam State Biodiversity Board and OIL, to assess and evaluate whether the legal obligations under the aforesaid environmental regulatory framework were implemented by OIL and the other stakeholders. 

--- PAGE 45 ---
 
44  
 
2. In this context, the Committee would like to draw attention to certain breaches of environmental regulations, which are discussed herein below. Based on the information gathered thus far, the Committee has been able to arrive at key findings with conclusive evidence inter-alia of violations and non-compliance by OIL of key environmental safeguards and safety oversight that appears to render the environmental protections, particularly under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, Hazardous Waste (Management and Handling) Rules, 1989 and more recently the Hazardous and Other Wastes (Management & Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016 ineffective. I. Consent to Establish and Consent to Operate 1. Statutory obligations mandate that all offshore oil drilling projects adhere to strict compliance of obtaining consent under the provisions of the Water (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, the Air (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1981and Authorization under the Hazardous Waste (Management & Handling) Rules, 1989 and more recently the Hazardous and Other Wastes (Management & Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016. 2. Consent under the Water (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and the Air (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 are to be obtained in a phased manner: firstly, by obtaining a Consent to Establish (hereinafter referred to as CTE/NOC) followed by a Consent to Operate (hereinafter referred to as CTO). Relevant provisions of the CTE/NOC and CTO under the Water (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and the Air (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 are extracted below for ready reference. Water (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 (hereinafter referred to as the Water Act)  Section 25. Restrictions on new outlets and new discharges  (1) Subject to the provisions of this section, no person shall, without the previous consent of the State Board-(a) establish or take any steps to establish any industry, operation or process, or any treatment and disposal system or any extension or addition thereto, which is likely to discharge sewage or trade effluent into a stream or well or 

--- PAGE 46 ---
 
45  
 
sewer or on land (such discharge being hereafter in this section referred to as discharge of sewage); or  (b) bring into use any new or altered outlet for the discharge of sewage; or (c) begin to make any new discharge of sewage:  PROVIDED that a person in the process of taking any steps to establish any industry, operation or process immediately before the commencement of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Amendment Act, 1988, for which no consent was necessary prior to such commencement, may continue to do so for a period of three months from such commencement or, if he has made an application for such consent, within the said period of three months, till the disposal of such application.  (2) An application for consent of the State Board under sub-section (1) shall be made in such form, contain such particulars and shall be accompanied by such fees as may be prescribed.]  (3) The State Board may make such inquiry as it may deem fit in respect of the application for consent referred to in sub-section (1) and in making any such inquiry shall follow such procedure as may be prescribed.  (4) The State Board may-  (a) grant its consent referred to in sub-section (1), subject to such conditions as it may impose, being- (i) in cases referred to in clauses (a) and (b) of sub-section (1) of section 25, conditions as to the point of discharge of sewage or as to the use of that outlet or any other outlet for discharge of sewage; (ii) in the case of a new discharge, conditions as to the nature and composition, temperature, volume or rate of discharge of the effluent from the land or premises from which the discharge or new discharge is to be made; and (iii) that the consent will be valid only for such period as may be specified in the order, and any such conditions imposed shall be binding on any person establishing or taking any steps to establish any industry, operation or process, or treatment and disposal system or extension or addition thereto, or using the new or altered outlet, or discharging the effluent from the land or premises aforesaid; or 

--- PAGE 47 ---
 
46  
 
(b) refuse such consent for reasons to be recorded in writing.  (5) Where, without the consent of the State Board, any industry, operation or process, or any treatment and disposal system or any extension or addition thereto, is established, or any steps for such establishment have been taken or a new or altered outlet is brought into use for the discharge of sewage or a new discharge of sewage is made, the State Board may serve on the person who has established or taken steps to establish any industry, operation or process, or any treatment and disposal system or any extension or addition thereto, or using the outlet, or making the discharge, as the case may be, a notice imposing any such conditions as it might have imposed on an application for its consent in respect of such establishment, such outlet or discharge. (6) Every State Board shall maintain a register containing particulars of the conditions imposed under this section and so much of the register as relates to any outlet, or to any effluent, from any land or premises shall be open to inspection at all reasonable hours by any person interested in, or affected by such outlet, land or premises, as thecase may be, or by any person authorised by him in this behalf and the conditions so contained in such register shall be conclusive proof that the consent was granted subject to such conditions.]  (6) Every State Board shall maintain a register containing particulars of the conditions imposed under this section and so much of the register as relates to any outlet, or to any effluent, from any land or premises shall be open to inspection at all reasonable hours by any person interested in, or affected by such outlet, land or premises, as the case may be, or by any person authorized by him in this behalf and the conditions so contained in such register shall be conclusive proof that the consent was granted subject to such conditions.]  (7) The consent referred to in sub-section (1) shall, unless given or refused earlier, be deemed to have been given unconditionally on the expiry of a period of four months of the making of an application in this behalf complete in all respects to the State Board.  (8) For the purposes of this section and sections 27 and 30-  

--- PAGE 48 ---
 
47  
 
(a) the expression "new or altered outlet" means any outlet which  is  wholly  or partly constructed on or after the commencement of this Act or which (whether so constructed or not) is substantially altered after such commencement;  (b) the expression "new discharge" means a discharge which is not, as respects the nature and composition, temperature, volume, and rate of discharge of the effluent substantially a continuation of a discharge made within the preceding twelve months (whether by the same or a different outlet), so however that a discharge which is in other respects a continuation of previous discharge made as aforesaid shall not be deemed to be a new discharge by reason of any reduction of the temperature or volume or rate of discharge of the effluent as compared with the previous discharge.  Section 26. Provision regarding existing discharge of sewage or trade effluent.—Where immediately before the commencement of this Act any person was discharging any sewage or trade effluent into a 1[stream or well or sewer or on land], the provisions of section 25 shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to such person as they apply in relation to the person referred to in that section subject to the modification that the application for consent to be made under sub-section (2) of that section 2[shall be made on or before such date as may be specified by the State Government by notification in this behalf in the Official Gazette].  Air (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 (hereinafter referred to as the Air Act)  21. Restrictions on use of certain industrial plants.— [(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, no person shall, without the previous consent of the State Board, establish or operate any industrial plant in an air pollution control area:  Provided that a person operating any industrial plant in any air pollution control area immediately before the commencement of section 9 of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Amendment Act, 1987, for which no consent was necessary prior to such commencement, may continue to do so for a period of three months from such commencement or, if he has made an application for such consent within the said period of three months, till the disposal of such application.]  

--- PAGE 49 ---
 
48  
 
(2) An application for consent of the State Board under sub-section (1) shall be accompanied by such fees as may be prescribed and shall be made in the prescribed form and shall contain the particulars of the industrial plant and such other particulars as may be prescribed:  Provided that where any person, immediately before the declaration of any area as an air pollution control area, operates in such area any industrial plant, such person shall make the application under this sub-section within such period (being not less than three months from the date of such declaration) as may be prescribed and where such person makes such application, he shall be deemed to be operating such industrial  plant with the consent of the State Board until the consent applied for has been refused.  (3) The State Board may make such inquiry as it may deem fit in respect of the application for consent referred to in sub-section (1) and in making any such inquiry, shall follow such procedure as may be prescribed.  (4) Within a period of four months after the receipt of the application for consent referred to in sub-section (1), the State Board shall, by order in writing, [and for reasons to be recorded in the order, grant the consent applied for subject to such conditions and for such period as may be specified in the order, or refuse such consent]:  [Provided that it shall be open to the State Board to cancel such consent before the expiry of the period for which it is granted or refuse further consent after such expiry if the conditions subject to which such consent has been granted are not fulfilled:  Provided further that before cancelling a consent or refusing a further consent under the first provision, a reasonable opportunity of being heard shall be given to the person concerned.]  (5) Every person to whom consent has been granted by the State Board under sub- section (4), shall comply with the following conditions, namely:—  (i) the control equipment of such specifications as the State Board may approve in this behalf shall be installed and operated in the premises where the industry is carried on or proposed to be carried on;  

--- PAGE 50 ---
 
49  
 
(ii) the existing control equipment, if any, shall be altered or replaced in accordance with the directions of the State Board;  (iii) the control equipment referred to in clause (i) or clause (ii) shall be kept at all times in good running condition;  (iv) chimney, wherever necessary, of such specifications as the State Board may approve in this behalf shall be erected or re-erected in such premises; and (v) such other conditions as the State Board, may specify in this behalf; and  (vi) the conditions referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iv) shall be complied with within such period as the State Board may specify in this behalf:  Provided that in the case of a person operating any industrial plant 3*** in an air pollution control area immediately before the date of declaration of such area as an air pollution control area, the period so specified shall not be less than six months:  Provided further that—  (a) after the installation of any control equipment in accordance with the specifications under clause (i), or  (b) after the alteration or replacement of any control equipment in accordance with the directions of the State Board under clause (ii), or  (c) after the erection or re-erection of any chimney under clause (iv), no control equipment or chimney shall be altered or replaced or, as the case may be, erected or re-erected except with the previous approval of the State Board.  (6) If due to any technological improvement or otherwise the State Board is of opinion that all or any of the conditions referred to in sub-section (5) require or requires variation (including the change of any control equipment, either in whole or in part), the State Board shall, after giving the person to whom consent has been granted an opportunity of being heard, vary all or any of such conditions and thereupon such person shall be bound to comply with the conditions as so varied.  

--- PAGE 51 ---
 
50  
 
(7) Where a person to whom consent has been granted by the State Board under sub- section (4) transfers his interest in the industry to any other person, such consent shall be deemed to have been granted to such other person and he shall be bound to comply with all the conditions subject to which it was granted as if the consent was granted to him originally.  3. A reading of the aforesaid provisions makes it clear that the CTE/NOC and CTO provided under Section 25 and 26 of the Water Act and Section 21 of the Air Act are pari materia except that Section 25 (7) provides for deemed consent to obtain the CTE/NOC under the Water Act. The detailed procedure for obtaining such consents have been prescribed under Rule 25 of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution (Assam) Rules 1977 and Rule 26 of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution Assam Rules, 1991.  Be it noted that the CTE/NOC and CTO may be obtained through a composite form framed by the Pollution Control Board, Assam for both the aforesaid Acts. Similar authorizations are mandated under Rule 5 of the Hazardous Wastes (Management and Handling) Rules, 1989 and more recently, the Hazardous and Other Wastes (Management & Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016. 4. Several representations received from the local stakeholders allege that OIL did not have the mandatory consent and authorization required under the aforesaid Acts and Rules. In fact, subsequent to the Well Baghjan -5 blowout and explosion, the Pollution Control Board, Assam (hereinafter referred to as PCB, Assam) issued a Closure Notice dated 19.06.2020 inter-alia on the same grounds. The said Closure Notice was, however, subsequently withdrawn on 22.06.2020 subject to certain conditions, which are being examined by the Committee, at present. Copies of the Show Cause Notice dated 10.06.2020, Reply to Show Cause Notice dated 19.06.2020, Closure Notice dated 19.06.2020, Affidavit filed by OIL India Ltd. dated 22.06.2020 to PCB, Assam and the Letter dated 22.06.2020 withdrawing the Closure Notice issued by PCB, Assam are appended hereto as Appendix-B Colly. 

--- PAGE 52 ---
 
51  
 
5. A perusal of the records produced by OIL and PCB, Assam with respect to the projects pertaining to the Baghjan Oilfield reveals a discernable pattern of alleged infractions of the mandatory consents and authorization required under the aforesaid Acts and Rules. 6. It is a stated position of OIL before the Committee that drilling activity in Well Baghjan-5 first commenced on 20.11.2006. It has been further stated that consent application (CTE/NOC and CTO) were submitted to the PCB, Assam vide OIL letter ref no. S&E/E/20/723 dated 05.07.2006. The said letter is appended hereto as Appendix-C. A bare perusal of the OIL letter ref no. S&E/E/20/723 dated 05.07.2006 indicates that vide the said letter OIL has preferred a composite application for both CTE/NOC and CTO for all the 33 drilling locations including Well Baghjan-5. The letter further indicates that submitting composite applications for both CTE/NOC and CTO seemed to be the preferred practice adopted by OIL for all its drilling explorations in Assam. As evident from the discussion in the aforesaid section and as per Section 25 and 26 of the Water Act and Section 21 of the Air Act, the said practice of preferring composite applications for both sets of consent runs completely contrary to the procedure prescribed under the aforesaid Acts and Rules. The reading of the aforesaid Acts and Rules makes it abundantly clear that the procedure established envisages distinct and separate procedures for applications of the mandatory consent and authorizations, each requiring submission of different forms as provided under the Rules along with separate set of documents for verification. 7. Be it stated herein that OIL has placed only the letter ref. no. S&E/E/20/723 dated 05.07.2006 without the relevant supporting documents before this Committee. In absence of any other clarification from OIL and on the face of the records produced, it is evident that OIL has flagrantly violated the procedure envisaged under Section 25 and 26 of the Water Act and Section 21 of the Air Act. It is pertinent to note here that the PCB, Assam has not placed any such document which indicates that the said letter dated 05.07.2006 was approved and that the relevant CTE/NOC and/or the CTE had been granted for the drilling Well Baghjan-5 in 2006. In fact, it can be safely concluded that OIL had never procured or any such CTE/NOC and/or CTO under the aforesaid Acts and Rules in the manner prescribed for drilling operation of Well Baghjan-5 in 2006. 

--- PAGE 53 ---
 
52  
 
8. The submissions made by OIL in this respect further vindicates this assumption. OIL has stated before the Committee that no query or refusal was ever received from the PCB, Assam. As such, as per the provisions under Section 25 (7) of the Water Act, OIL construed that the consent was deemed. As discussed above, the provision for deemed consent has been made available only in the case of Water Act. The Air Act or the Hazardous Rules do not contain any such provisions for deemed consent. Therefore, even if the submission of OIL is accepted to be true, OIL only had the necessary CTE/NOC under the Water Act for the year of 2006. However, the mandatory CTO was never approved by PCB, Assam under the Water Act and/or the CTE/NOC under the Air Act and/or the CTO under the Air Act. As such, from the face of the records placed before the Committee, it is clear that OIL had flagrantly violated the provision under the Water Act and Air Act for the year 2006-07. 9. Additionally, the provisions under both the Water Act and the Air Act provide that the consent either to establish and/or operate within a period of 4 months from the date of submission of the complete application along with the prescribed fee. Be it stated herein that the records furnished by OIL for the year 2006-07 indicate that the fee for the composite application for CTE/NOC and/or CTO was submitted only on 22.09.2006. Therefore, it can be safely presumed that the CTE/NOC would come into effect vide Section 25 (7) for the Water Act only on 22.01.2007. As mentioned above, OIL has consistently reiterated that drilling activities with respect to Well Baghjan-5 had commenced on 20.11.2006. This admission, by itself clearly indicates that Well Baghjan-5 in 2006 was already in operation before the mandatory consents were approved or ‘deemed’ to be approved under the Water Act. From the records that have been placed before the Committee, it can be therefore be safely concluded that OIL never had the CTE/NOC and/or the CTO both under the Water Act and/or under the Air Act, when it first started its drilling operations in Well Baghjan-5 in 2006. 10. What is alarming is that the records furnished by OIL and PCB, Assam consistently indicate a clear infraction of environment safeguards as prescribed under the aforesaid laws by OIL, even for the subsequent years. As evident from the reply to the Show Cause Notice dated 19.06.2020 and the records submitted by PCB, Assam, the mandatory consent under the Water Act and Air Act was approved by PCB, Assam only for the years 2008-09, 2012-13, 2018-19.  

--- PAGE 54 ---
 
53  
 
 For the years 2006-07, 2009-10, 2010-11, 2011-12, 2013-14, 2014-15,      2015-16, 2016-17, 2017-18, 2019-20, no consent has been issued by the PCB, Assam   as per the records placed before the Committee. This indicates that OIL only had the necessary CTE/NOC under the Water Act for the aforesaid 3 years i.e. 2008-09,      2012-13, 2018-19. From the face of the records placed before the Committee, it is therefore, clear that OIL had flagrantly and consistently violated the provision under the Water Act and Air Act.  11. What is even more alarming is that in the instant case pertaining to the blowout and explosion of Well Baghjan-5, a fait accompli is presented to us. From the documents placed before the Committee, it appears that OIL had no CTE/NOC and/or CTO either under the Water Act and/or the Air Act and/or authorization under the Hazardous Waste (Management, Handling and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016. Records indicate that during the closure proceedings before the PCB, Assam immediately post the blowout of Well Baghjan-5 and the explosion on 09.06.2020, OIL, in its affidavit has clearly admitted that they did not have the required CTE/NOC and/or CTO for the year 2020-2025. It is stated in their Affidavit dated 22.06.2020, relevant extracts of which read as under :  a. That with respect to the Consent to Operate, Oil India limited has been regularly applying for Consent to operate NOCs from the State Pollution Control Board, Assam since 2006-07. For the year 2020-25 ( 5 years period), an offline application was submitted to the Regional Office, Pollution Control Board, Assam vide letter ref no. S&E/E/20/528 dated 05.05.2020. Also vide above letter it was requested to process our last year consent to operate application at the earliest for submission of online Consent to operate applications for the year 2020- 2021, as without disposal of previous proposal another new proposal can’t be applied. In response, the regional Office directed to deposit the requisite fee along with the necessary documents and information for the year 2020- 2021 vide mail dated 29.05.2020. However, OIL could not deposit the fee amount till date as the new online portal “Online Consent Management and Monitoring System” is not accepting our user id already registered with the earlier online portal EODB “Ease of Doing Business”. That OIL is willing to make the payment along with the application through offline mode in. order to obtain the requisite permissions. 

--- PAGE 55 ---
 
54  
 
 The aforesaid statement made by OIL in its Affidavit dated 22.06.2020 conclusively proves that OIL did not have the required CTO/NOC and/or CTO under the Water Act and/or under the Air Act and or the authorization under the Hazardous Waste (Management, Handling and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016. Be it stated herein that the PCB, Assam has not able to place any CTE/NOC and/or CTO for any year including the year 2020 and/or for the Well Baghjan-5. 12. This, leads us to the necessary conclusion that on the day of the blowout of Well Baghjan-5 on 27.05.2020 and explosion on 09.06.2020, OIL did not have the mandatory consents including the CTE/NOC and/or the CTO under the Water Act, Air Act and/or the Hazardous Waste (Management, Handling and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016. The omissions on the part of OIL amounts to a clear violation not merely of the statutory mandate but also the conditions that have been stipulated under Clause 10 (iii) and (vi) of the Environment Clearance dated 11.05.2020 with respect to the Extension Drilling & Testing of Hydrocarbons at 7 locations under the DSNP Area, where the blowout and subsequent fire occurred with respect to Well Baghjan-5. 13. In view of the above discussion and on basis of the submissions and documents submitted by OIL and the PCB, Assam, it is concluded that OIL does not have, till date, the required consent to establish and/or consent to operate to either carry out drilling and testing of hydrocarbons in Well Baghjan-5 under the DSNP Area, except for what has been stated in para 10 above. This indicates a serious and grave infraction against the statutory environmental safeguards, more particularly under Section 25 & 26 of the Water Act, Section 21 of the Air Act, the authorization under Rule 6 of the Hazardous Waste (Management, Handling and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016 and the Environmental Clearance dated 11.05.2020 for the said project. This may therefore require scrutiny of all existing projects of OIL in the State of Assam to ascertain if they meet the mandatory requirements of obtaining consent / authorization under the aforesaid Acts and Rules. It is recommended that the Hon’ble NGT may also look into the activities of the PCB, Assam with regard to the grant of CTE / NOC and CTO for all the projects of OIL, presently in operation, in the State of Assam. 

--- PAGE 56 ---
 
55  
 
II. Compliance or otherwise of Orders of the Hon’ble Supreme Court  1. In 2006, vide an order dated 04.12.2006 in Goa Foundation vs. Union of India being W.P(C) No. 460/2004, the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India mandated that under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, States should declare eco-sensitive zones (ESZs) around the protected areas to keep a check on their fragmentation that may result from industrial development. Accordingly, mining and most polluting industries were prohibited in these zones. The Hon’ble Supreme Court further ordered that till the States do not identify such ESZs, all the projects that require environment clearance and are within 10 km of a protected area boundary, including mining, would be allowed only after getting an approval from the National Board of Wildlife (NBWL). 2. The Hon’ble Supreme Court, vide its Order dated 07.09.2017 in In Re T.N. Godavarman Vs. Union of India was pleased to relax the aforesaid prohibition in  favour  of  OIL and granted conditional approval to OIL to undertake   the present extraction of hydrocarbons from the proposed wells including the Well Baghjan-5. A copy of the Order dated 07.09.2017 is appended hereto as Appendix-D. As evident from the Order dated 07.09.2017, the relaxation granted by the Hon’ble Supreme Court necessitated compliance by OIL of the following conditions which included : (i) OIL will carry out a Bio-diversity Impact Assessment study through Assam State Biodiversity Board, for which budgetary offer have already been obtained on 12.05.2017. (ii) OIL will carry out subsidence study followed with taking mitigation measures, in order to ensure that there is no impact in the forest surface above the reservoir at height 3,900 to 4,000 mtr, due to extraction of hydrocarbon from the reservoirs. (iii) All mitigation measures will be in place in case of any eventuality causing oil spillage inside the Park such as – install Blow Out Preventer at well head and provide necessary valves in the production installations located outside the Park area. Standard Operating procedure (SOP), approved by the competent authority, pertaining to Oil Spillage, will be strictly adhered to. 

--- PAGE 57 ---
 
56  
 
(iv) Undertake schedule test and inspection of the area periodically in order to assess any abnormality in the surface area above the reservoir inside the Park. (v) OIL will also ensure strict compliance of the conditions stipulated in EIA Notification 2006 for both inside the Park areas as well as the ESZ area of it. 3. Having reviewed the documents placed before the Committee by both OIL and the Assam State Biodiversity Board, there appears to be a clear noncompliance vis-à-vis of conducting the Biodiversity Impact Assessment study as was mandated vide Clause 1 of the aforesaid Order passed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court. Neither OIL nor the Assam State Biodiversity Board have presented any Biodiversity Impact Assessment study that was undertaken after 07.09.2017. To a specific request for submission of all expert committee reports pertaining to DSNP and its biodiversity, the Assam State Biodiversity Board clarified that such Reports, if any, were available only with the Wildlife Wing of the Assam Forest Department, which administers the DSNP and the biological diversity contained therein under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. The statement of the Assam State Biodiversity Board, thus implies in clear terms that Assam State Biodiversity Board was not approached by OIL to carry out a Biodiversity Impact Assessment. In fact, OIL, in their reply to the Committee’s query has stated to have engaged the Institute of Advanced Study in Science & Technology to prepare Biodiversity Impact Assessment study. It is not clarified by OIL whether they had informed the Hon’ble Supreme Court before making such deviations. In any case, as on date, there appears to be no such Biodiversity Impact Assessment study, either prepared by the Assam State Biodiversity Board or any other agency engaged by OIL, on record, till date. 4. The Committee is presently reviewing whether OIL complied with the other conditions as mandated by the Hon’ble Supreme Court. Based on the reading of the documents placed before the Committee, a strong presumption arises that mitigation measures as directed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court for hazards such as spillage, oil blow out, fires were not in place at the time of the blowout or the fire at Well Baghjan -5. Additionally, the Committee is also reviewing the Good International Petroleum Industry Practices (GIPIP) guidelines codified by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural 

--- PAGE 58 ---
 
57  
 
Gas, Government of India which indicate marked deviations in areas of exploration, development and production activities by OIL. III.  Issues pertaining to the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986  1. The Representations placed before the Committee by local stakeholders allege that OIL did not have the necessary Environmental clearance (hereinafter referred to as the EC) for Baghjan Petroleum Mining Lease (PML) when it became operational in 2003 under the then Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification, 1994. Further, documents placed before the Committee by OIL indicate further discrepancies pertaining to issue of the mandatory EC required for offshore drilling projects. OIL has submitted three ECs pertaining to the Baghjan oilfield, the first of which is dated 01.11.2011. To a query raised by the Committee of whether OIL had received any EC from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change prior to 01.11.2011, OIL has stated that the EC dated 01.11.2011 was the first obtained by OIL from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change for which the application was submitted in 19.11.2007. It is a stated position by OIL that their operations in Well Baghjan-5 had first commenced on 20.11.2006. This leads to the prima facie conclusion that OIL had started the activities in Well Baghjan-5, 5 years prior to grant of EC by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Government of India, which is mandatory. The OIL thereby had contravened the provisions Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 and the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification, 2006 under which it is mandatory to obtain EC for any offshore drilling projects before commencement of activities on 20.11.2006. 2.  Given such contravention, the Committee is reviewing the various provisions and rules framed under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 for any further infraction by OIL against the safeguards prescribed under the aforesaid Act. Additionally, the Committee intends to verify whether the general and specific conditions as stipulated under the various ECs under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 and the EIA Notification 2006, have been complied with, particularly with respect to the projects pertaining to the Well Baghjan-5. 

--- PAGE 59 ---
 
58  
 
3. In this context, it is pertinent to note that the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) had brought out notifications in 1989, with the purpose of prohibition / restriction of operations of certain industries to protect ecologically sensitive Doon Valley. The notification introduced the concept of categorization of industries as ‘Red’, ‘Orange’ and ‘Green’ with the purpose of facilitating decisions related to location of these industries, which was gradually extended across the country. Subsequently, the categorisation was modified under Section 18(1)(b) of the Water Act and the Air Act for harmonizing of classification of Industrial Sector under red/orange/ green/white categories by the Central Pollution Control Board vide Letter                No.B-29012/ESS (CPA)2015-16 dated 07.03.2016. Notably, in both these categorizations, oil extraction related industries have consistently been classified as ‘Red’ which imply that no such industries shall normally be permitted to operate in the ecologically fragile areas/protected area. 4. In the aforesaid Letter dated 07.03.2016, Item 43 lists ‘Oil and gas extraction including CBM (offshore & on-shore extraction through drilling wells)’ under Table    G-2: Final List of Red Category of Industrial Sectors. Similarly, in the Doon Valley Notification of 1989, petrochemical industry has been categorised as ‘Red. Within the ambit of the 1989 notification, category “Red” projects were those which could not be included in the ecologically sensitive area across the country. The Re-Categorisation Exercise of 2016 also adopted the same criteria and provided that no “Red” category of industries would normally be permitted in the ecologically fragile area/protection area. 5. Curiously, the aforesaid Letter dated 07.03.2016 issued by the Central Pollution Control Board has been adopted by the State of Assam only in the year 2019 vide Notification No.WG/G-1521/18-19/27 dated 04.05.2019. Be that as it may, the subsequent declaration of eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) around the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park and the implications of the Notification of the new projects pertaining to the extension drilling and testing of hydrocarbons in the study area raise several questions which need to be examined by the Committee in further detail. The Committee is in the process of examining these inconsistencies with the instructions of the Central Pollution Control Board and the extent of such non-compliance. 

--- PAGE 60 ---
 
59  
 
6. During the site visit to Baghjan, the Committee also intends to verify if all the necessary conditions were complied with by OIL as was mandated by the SC NBWL while granting its approval for the new projects pertaining to Extension Drilling & Testing of hydrocarbons in Well Baghjan-5 including Well Baghjan-5 under the DSNP since 11.05.2020. The Committee is also reviewing OIL’s HSE policies and guidelines to establish if they were compliant with the safeguards as provided under the Hazardous and Other Wastes (Management and Trans-Boundary Movement) Rules, 2016, Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, E-Waste Management Rules, 2016, Oil Mines Regulation 1984, Oil Mines Regulation 2017 under the India Mines Act, 1952 and the GIPIP standards.   *** 

--- PAGE 61 ---
 
60  
 
Chapter – V Assessment of Damages and Interim Measures A. Assessment of Damages 1. Studies on oil blowout and explosion concur on the fact that the impact of a blowout and explosion depend on the size of the spill, the rate of the spill, the type of spillage and the location of the spill. Further, timing and location plays a significant harm to individual organisms and entire population. The Well Baghjan-5 blowout started on 27.05.2020 and continued for at least 14 days before the explosion on 09.06.2020. The fire continues to burn even after more than 50 days since the explosion on 09.06.2020. A disaster of this proportion, will reveal both acute and chronic effects, some of which may continue even for decades after the blowout and explosion. This section will discuss the damage that has been assessed through various impact assessment studies that have been conducted in the site area, till date. Inputs received from the local stakeholders form the basis of the following analysis. The section also draws significantly from the observations and suggestions gathered from its interactions with the scientific experts and institutions including the M.K. Yadava Committee, WII, Dr. Asad Rahmani, Professor B.C. Choudhury, Dr. Ritesh Kumar, Dr. Ranjan Kumar Das.  I. Extent of Affected Areas  1. The image provided below captures the day to day oil spillage coverage in Baghjan area. The image indicates the extent of spill that occurred in the surrounding area before the explosion on 09.06.2020 in the area. Ground reports from local stakeholders suggest that the incident has severely affected a radius of 6 kms from the Baghjan Oil Well No. 5. Further, areas within the radius of 6-10 kms have been moderately affected. Reports from local individuals indicate that the smell of gas has engulfed the entire landscape and was also felt from around 10 km away from the site of the explosion. Expert who have visited the site including Dr. Ranjan Kumar Das indicate that the condensate and the spill affected all forms of life within a 2km radius while the effects of the gases could be felt even at a  distance of more than 9 kms. In his assessment, within the 2km radius, all the phytoplankton and zooplankton were directly affected while there were coatings of oil film on plant life, water bodies, agricultural fields, gardens and manmade structures. 

--- PAGE 62 ---
 
61  
 
 
  Source: Aaranyak  
 Grassland burnt and turned brown due to oil spillage  Source: Report submitted by Imon Abedin  
  Source: Report submitted by Imon Abedin 


--- PAGE 63 ---
 
62  
 
 
 Source: Report submitted by Imon Abedin 
2.  The explosion on 09.06.2020 and the subsequent fire which broke out has led to immense damage to the local population and their homes, apart from small tea gardens which were completely burnt down. Reports indicate that the grasslands on the south-western side and the western side have been impacted by the fire and during the field survey conducted by the experts, it was observed that bird density and diversity within a 1km radius had reduced substantially. 3. The sound that has been emanating from the well since the explosion can be heard even from a distance of 12 kms from the site of the explosion. The reports unanimously report the extensive damage to the entire area around the explosion burning grasslands, tea gardens and houses. The report dated 05.07.2020 received from the Office of the District Administration prepared by the Circle Officer, Doomdooma indicate that a detailed assessment of the actual affected areas and the affected pattadars is ongoing and will be furnished to the Committee upon completion. The Committee intends to undertake a site visit early next week to independently verify the extent of the burnout area due to the explosion, the spillage area and the area affected due to the deposition of condensate and ash.  


--- PAGE 64 ---
 
63  
 
 
       Source: Report submitted by WII   
  Source: Report submitted by Imon Abedin  


--- PAGE 65 ---
 
64  
 
II. Damages occurred due to the Incident  a. Impact on Environment 1. All the expert reports, opinion and local representations before us unanimously concur that there has been substantial adverse impact on environment which is of a long-term nature. Several reports, particularly the impact assessment report submitted by the WII provide detailed prima-facie assessment of the impact to the environment through key parameters such as air, water, soil, sound quality etc. The Committee places reliance on the Report of WII for a preliminary finding on assessment of damages due to the incident. Simultaneously, independent testing on all these parameters has also been requested from the CSIR-NEIST, Jorhat and Pollution Control Board, Assam. The CSIR-NEIST, Jorhat has informed the Committee that the report shall be completed within a time frame of 20 days after the flood water recedes. The results of these tests will inform the final findings of the Committee. The findings from the reports available presently have been analysed briefly herein below : (i) Air Quality 1.  Several representations received from the local communities in and around the site of incident have revealed complaints of difficulty in breathing and the ambient air being laden within toxic and heavy fumes. Even scientific teams from institutions such as the WII, who have visited the site, have reported such experiences. To this end, some preliminary data of the presence of high level of pollutants in the air is available. The WII has measured the Nitrogen, Sulphur Dioxide, Carbon Monoxide and HCOH (formaldehyde) in the environment surrounding the site of incident. NO2 has shown  16 % increase on May 27 which is the highest recorded in the data time window  (1st May to 10th July). According to the study, SO2 (Sulphur Dioxide) levels spiked on 27.05.2020 and the highest has been recorded on 09.06.2020, following which it subsided. HCHO (Formaldehyde) also showed a spike on 28.05.2020 and 09.06.2020, with the highest reading on 21.06.2020. The CO (Carbon Monoxide) levels do not show much changes before and after the blowout. 

--- PAGE 66 ---
 
65  
 
2. It has been widely reported in the representations available before us that several residents of villages close to the site of incident who have not been accommodated in the relief camps for various reasons are suffering from breathing difficulties. It can be conjectured that such a state of affairs is not desirable for the health conditions of several vulnerable population groups such as geriatric individuals, pregnant women, children etc who reside in the nearby villages. (ii) Water 1. In several representations filed before the Committee, it has come to light that local residents, especially of villages located close to the site of incident have been suffering because of contamination of the ground water. It has been stated before the Committee, that tube-wells used by villagers are emanating foul smelling water which makes it unusable. Several villages which are predominantly dependent on fishing from the nearby water bodies, such as the Maguri-Motapung wetland have been deprived of their livelihood because of the condensate on the water surface which has caused widespread damage to the aquatic ecosystem and also contaminated the water. 2. The water quality post the blowout has also been examined by scientific teams. Some of the preliminary data from institutions such as the WII reveal that there has been large scale impact on the quality of water in the surrounding water bodies, thereby, as a corollary causing substantial damage to the aquatic ecosystem. The WII assessed the quality of water through essential physiological parameters such as pH, Dissolved Oxygen (DO), Total Dissolved Solids (TDS), Conductivity, Specific Conductance Temperature and Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAHs) pollutants based on ground sampling of water, soil and tissue of dead animals. 3. The results indicate that the levels of Dissolved Oxygen in the Lohit, Dibru and Maguri-Motapung was lower than the minimum recorded value of Brahmaputra and barely above CPCB Class-A limits. The levels of Dissolved Oxygen had decreased from the day of blowout till the last date on 22.06.2020. In the opinion of the Institute, the Maguri-Motapung wetland is the worst affected with large scale death of aquatic fauna. The pollutants in water has also had a disastrous impact on the aquatic fauna. High mortality has been reported among fishes, insects, herpetofauna and insects including the decline of Gangetic River Dolphin Population in the area. A mortality 

--- PAGE 67 ---
 
66  
 
among the Gangetic Dolphin Population due to oil poisoning in the area has also been reported. It has been found that encounter rate of Gangetic River Dolphin in the area has decreased by 89% post of the oil blowout. While dolphin presence was recorded in Lohit and Dibru areas, no recording of Dolphin sound in Maguri-Motapung areas, which was the most impacted site. 4. The tests and evaluations carried out by the WII conclude that high levels of carcinogenic Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAH) pollutants have been released into the ecosystem, and will remain in the system for a long time. The concentration of carcinogenic PAH was found to be significantly higher than other studies in India and other parts of the world. Concentration of PAH found in fishes collected from Maguri-Motapung wetland was found to be 10-100 fold higher than earlier reported concentration in India and other parts of the world. The impact of this will be long term as these pollutants will leach into the ground and contaminate ground water. (iii) Soil 1. Representations from the surrounding areas reveal that local residents have suffered heavy damage to agricultural land, homestead land and also access to commons such as fishing in Maguri-Motapung wetland and associated water bodies. In fact, some local agriculturists have stated before the Committee that the damage to their land is irreversible.  In their view, their lands, much of which have not been surveyed by the Revenue Department, Government of Assam; might not be cultivable for another 20 years. 2. The preliminary data received by the Committee corroborates the claim that there has been widespread damage to the soil. The impact assessment report of the WII states that high levels of carcinogenic Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAH) pollutants which have been found in the ecosystem surrounding the site of incident will eventually percolate into the ground and even contaminate the ground water. In their view, the toxicity from these groups of pollutants is known to persist in the soil and aquatic system for a long time due to sustained release which will cause prolonged ill effects on all life forms. The PAHs in the soil and sediment samples used by the Institute ranged from 37.6 to 395.8 µg/Kg. 

--- PAGE 68 ---
 
67  
 
3. The soil analysis conducted by the Pollution Control Board, Assam on 12.06.2020 and 23.06.2020 in and around the site of incident have generally reported “Oil & Grease” above the permitted tolerance limits. In samples from the blowout site, heavy metals such as Lead and Copper have also been reported as above the permitted tolerance limits. The Committee has deemed it proper to call for updated and comprehensive toxicity tests from the Pollution Control Board, Assam. The results of the tests are expected shortly and will inform the final findings of the Committee. (iv) Sound/Noise 1. The representations received from local communities have also stated that the constant noise emanating from the oil well has caused immense difficulty to residents in the vicinity. It has been stated before us that the noise pollution from the oil well has made it difficult to go about activities of day to day existence such as sleeping. It has caused immense difficulty for students whose education has been hampered and also senior citizens who have not been able to rest or sleep. The long-term health impacts of such a situation will have to be studied in greater detail. 2. However, preliminary data available before us demonstrate that the noise levels existing currently in the vicinity of the site of incident is well above the limits set by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), which it makes it detrimental to both human and animal life. The assessment carried out by the WII at the site has arrived at the same finding. According to their study, the noise level in 12 km radius of 70db or above is higher than standard limits set by WHO and CPCB and is not suitable for both human and animal life. Exposure for a prolonged period may result in hearing loss and many other ailments apart from affecting most of the birds and mammal species. It has been stated by WII that the noise level of this magnitude will cause high levels of stress for humans who are in the vicinity and may become a threat to wildlife as well. (v) Loss of Flora and Fauna Since the expert team could not visit the affected site, this part of the report has been compiled from the reports submitted by WII, Aaranyak and Dr. Ranjan Kumar Das. Photographs of vegetation helped in identification of some of the plant species. 

--- PAGE 69 ---
 
68  
 
However, a detailed field study is needed to have a detailed technical report on the damage cause by the incident of gas blowout and fire to the biodiversity of the area. (vi) Loss of Flora 1.  The spread of gas and condensate from the Well Baghjan-5 since 27.05.2020 poses a threat to the biodiversity of the area that included Maguri-Motapung wetland, DSBR and the surrounding villages. Dr. Ranjan Kumar Das commented in his preliminary report that the condensate and related pollutants covered an area upto 2 kms radius from the blowout well. The vegetation under 2km radius comprised of tall grassland and aquatic vegetation of Maguri-Motapung wetland including part of the DSNP and Biosphere Reserve. Condensate created a layer over the grassland and wetland plant species that used as a habitat by critically endangered, endangered and rare birds, herpetofauna, butterflies and other wildlife. The water bodies are also source of rich diversity of phytoplankton in the area. The condensate layer and other pollutants on the plant species restricted the photosynthetic processes and resulted in injury and death of the species. The grassland within 2 km radius is generally dominated by Arundo donox, Saccharum spontaneum, Saccharum ravaenae, Phragmites karka. The severe impact of the pollutants from gas well could be seen on the grassland communities in Baghjan area and Maguri-Motapung Beel. Aaranyak identified a dried area (130 hectares) due to condensate (before 09.06.2020) covering current agricultural land (43.9 ha), gas well area (1.64 ha), betel nut gardens, small tea gardens, bamboo groves and home gardens (12.6 ha), grasslands (56.02 ha) and water spread areas (15.84 ha). The report of WII confirmed burnt out of the vegetation amounting to about 60-70 hectares around the blowout well that caught fire on 09.06.2020.  The pollutants also spread over the surrounding forest vegetation that comprised of basically mixed deciduous in characters with some semi-evergreen elements. The entry of different hydrocarbon compounds in the ecosystem severely disturbed the aquatic animals specially fish diversity due to the adverse effects on micro flora specially the phytoplankton. As phytoplankton (producer) is the major component of the food web of the aquatic ecosystem, the bio-magnification of the toxic pollutants in different tropic levels need to be studied and monitored to assess the actual damage in the wetland area of Maguri-Motapung wetland and DSBR. 

--- PAGE 70 ---
 
69  
 
(vii) Loss of Fauna  1. The spread of gas and condensate from 27.05.2020 to 09.06.2020 before the fire broke out, caused severe damage to the air, water, soil and surrounding vegetation and settlement area including agricultural fields. It caused death and injury of different groups of wild and domestic animals in the area. The noise pollution also caused significant decrease of diversity of wildlife from the area. 2. According to the reports of WII, Aaranyak and Dr. Ranjan Kumar Das, a dead Gangetic Dolphin (National aquatic animals of India) was found dead from Maguri-Motapung wetland after the blowout incident. The Post-Mortem Report conducted by WII suggested the probable cause of death of the dolphin could be the inhalation or ingestion of toxic substance leading to hypoxia. 3. Most of the breeding endemic Red Data Book grassland birds namely Swamp Francolin, Marsh Babbler, Jerdon's Babbler, Black-breasted Parrotbill and Swamp Prinia abandoned their nest without hatching or left their chicks to die after the incident. Dr. Ranjan Kumar Das also observed very less bird density and diversity within radius of 1km from the well after the incident. 4. Some of the observations of damages on wild fauna and its habitats made by the Report of the WII after the Baghjan blowout incident are summarised in the following points – i. The observed levels of PAHs (Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons) after the incident are reported to have severe impacts on fishes, plants, microbes, birds, reptiles, amphibians and mammals. ii. The total PAHs concentration reported in fish samples appears to be 10 - 100 folds higher than the earlier reported concentration in India. The impact is significant and will have long term effect, as many of these pollutants will leach into the ground and contaminate ground water.  iii. Maguri-Motapung wetland was severely damaged and polluted with respect to level of dissolved oxygen (DO), and total petroleum hydrocarbons. Fish richness declines by 71% and abundance by 81% between poor and good DO sites. It was observed that fishes having visible symptoms on body due to oil toxicity, like loss of scales, decolouration, bleeding and excess mucous secretion. Large numbers of species 

--- PAGE 71 ---
 
70  
 
have shown signs of oil impact. Among the affected fishes, some like – Cirrhinus reba, Banagana dero, Labeo bata, Labeo calbasu, Sperata aor, Sperata seengala, Channa marulius, Channa punctatus, and Eutropiichthys vacha have high economic value in market and some other fishes like – Puntius sophore, Puntius chola, Pethia gelius, Salmophasia bacaila, Baralius barna, Mystus vittatus, Xenetodon cancila, Anabus testudineus, and Parambassis ranga are ornamentally important fishes. The abundance of these species was found to be significantly less in Dibru River and Maguri-Motapung wetland, likely due to the mortality and avoidance of high toxic areas due to oil spill. About 30 carcasses of fish were recovered in water bodies around the blowout site. Communications with locals reveal that there were many more dead fish earlier after the gas well blowout and they have either washed out due to flood or fished out. iv. The predicted noise level from oil blowout point to 12 kms away ranges from 113 to 70db. This level of noise will adversely impact mammals, birds and insects, from disorientation to health issues. v. The encounter rate of Ganges river dolphin was 4.5/10 kms, which was reduced to 1.5/10 kms in May and by June it was 0.48/kms indicating 89% decline in use of this area between February and June. vi. The decline in bird richness is evident in grassland (59%) and wetland (85%) habitats.  vii. Species richness and abundance of butterflies increases with distance from well blowout site indicating impact of oil spill. Presences of oil film on wings of green marsh hawk and ditch jewel dragonfly and a carcass of a scarlet skimmer species with oil film on wings were noticed.  viii. There was a direct impacts of explosion burn down at least in 500 meter, and impacts of oil spill seems to be the likely cause for reduced encounter of herpetofaunal species. Live herpetofauna was recorded from 500m up to 6 km from the oil well explosion site and recovered carcasses at 400m and 6 km. 5. Therefore, there is an urgent need of a long term study to understand the long-term impacts of this uncontrolled blowout and gas-condensate spill on the ecology and environment of Maguri-Motapung wetland and DSNP as well as on the health and socioeconomic conditions and livelihood of local communities (depended on biodiversity of the area) around the affected areas. 

--- PAGE 72 ---
 
71  
 
(viii) Seismic activities 1. Assam is well known as a seismic zone, having recorded several major earthquakes in its history. Some of the representations before us, especially from local communities, highlight the fact that oil extraction and drilling in areas such as Baghjan should account for this factor. Even the impact assessment report from WII placed before the Committee, corroborates the validity of the claim. It has been stated that the Northeast region being one of the most active seismic zones in the world and Assam having recorded 586 earthquakes from 1970 to 08.07.2020; the site remains especially vulnerable to seismic activity. 2. WII submits that the seismic activity coupled with dynamic nature of the river systems in the area, which have changed course after waves of flooding, makes the landscape extremely fragile in the site of incident. Changes to geomorphology in the area can have damaging consequences in their opinion. It has been suggested, therefore, that oil drilling, laying pipelines etc. be considered with these interrelated factors in mind. 3. It has also been stated in the representations from the local communities that tremors emanating from the blowout site has caused heavy damage to their homes and local infrastructure. Several houses in these villages have reported cracked walls and floors and therefore, they are due to get compensation from OIL and the Government of Assam. b. Impact on the Eco-Sensitive Zone, Dibru-Saikhowa National Park and the Maguri-Motapung wetland 1. Reports received from all scientific experts and institutions unanimously concur on the extensive damage that has been caused to the ecosystem around Well Baghjan-5 including the DSNP, the Eco-Sensitive Zone and the Maguri-Motapung wetland. The DSNP is inundated with water and therefore site visits by experts have been limited to the Maguri-Motapung wetland. This section significantly draws from the reports received by the Committee, specifically from the local stakeholders and experts / institutions including, Shri Niranta Gohain, Dr. Ranjan Kumar Das, Prof. B.C. Choudhury, Dr. Asad Rahmani, Dr. Ritesh Kumar, observations made be the Expert Committee headed by Shri M.Y. Yadava, constituted by Government of Assam, WII. 

--- PAGE 73 ---
 
72  
 
 
         Source: Report of the WII submitted to the Commission   
          Source: report of the WII submitted to the Committee   
             Source: Report of Imon Abedin submitted to the Committee 


--- PAGE 74 ---
 
73  
 
2. The impact assessment report dated 15.07.2020 by WII provides a detailed analysis of the extent of damage in the aftermath of the blowout and spill. The results indicate that large scale damage has been caused to the biodiversity in the area. The tests and evaluations carried out by the WII conclude that high levels of carcinogenic Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAH) pollutants have been released into the ecosystem and will remain in the system for a long time. The concentration of carcinogenic PAH was found to be significantly higher than other studies in India and other parts of the world. Concentration of PAH found in fishes collected from Maguri-Motapung wetland was found to be 10-100-fold higher than earlier reported concentration in India and other parts of the world. The impact of this will be long term as these pollutants will leach into the ground and contaminate ground water. 3. High mortality has been reported among fishes, insects, herpetofauna and insects including the decline of Gangetic River Dolphin Population in the area. A mortality among the Gangetic Dolphin Population due to oil poisoning in the area has also been reported. It has been found that encounter rate of Gangetic River Dolphin in the area has decreased by 89% post of the oil blowout. While Dolphin presence was recorded in Lohit and Dibru areas, no recording of Dolphin sound in Maguri-Motapung areas, which was the most impacted site. It has been found that bird species richness increases with the increase in distance from oil spill site. While the overall richness and abundance of fishes decline with decrease in dissolved oxygen at different sites, which in turn was a result of the oil spill. There was a similar impact on insect populations which were found in much less number closer to the impact site. 4. The test results carried out by WII indicate that the levels of Dissolved Oxygen in the Lohit, Dibru and Maguri-Motapung was lower than the minimum recorded value of Brahmaputra and barely above CPCB class A limits. The levels of Dissolved Oxygen had decreased from the day of blowout till the last date on 22.06.2020. In the opinion of WII, the Maguri-Motapung Beel is the worst affected with large scale death of aquatic fauna. 5. Dr. Ranjan Kumar Das is of the opinion that the first phase of the damage happened during the period from 27.05.2020 to 08.06.2020 when the toxic gases with condensate were being blown out. The grasslands have been severely affected and most 

--- PAGE 75 ---
 
74  
 
of the grassland bird species enlisted in the IUCN Red Data Book who were breeding have abandoned their nests without hatching. The table included by Dr. Ranjan Kumar Das is reproduced herein below : Table 2: List of the breeding grassland birds of Maguri-Motapung grassland and their IUCN status  Species Scientific Name Status in IUCN Red Data Book Swamp Francolin Francolinus gularis Vulnerable Marsh Babbler Pellorneum palustre Vulnerable Jerdon’s Babbler Chrysomma altirostre Vulnerable Black-breasted Parrotbill Paradoxornis flavirostris Vulnerable Swamp Prinia Prinis cinerascens Near Threatened   It was noted that not a single threatened bird in the IUCN Red Data Book were seen as most of their habitats have been badly affected by the fire. As on 14.07.2020, even after three waves of floods, oil sleek and condensate could be observed in the grassland habitats. 6. The Expert Committee led by Shri M.K. Yadava constituted by the Government of Assam, and other expert agencies such as the Bombay History Society are involved in carrying out surveys of the avian and aquatic fauna that have been impacted. Local experts on birds, fishes, butterflies etc. have been engaged in carrying out surveys under the Divisional Forest Officer, Tinsukia Wildlife Division for all parts of the DSNP and the Dibru/Dangori River ecosystems. The coordination of all the surveys in the Maguri-Motapung ecosystems and surrounding areas are being done by the Divisional Forest Officer, Dibrugarh Division. Wildlife specimens have been collected by the respective Divisional Forest Officers and the PCB, Assam. The samples have been sent to various institutions such as Institute of Advanced Studies in Science and Technology, Guwahati, Assam Agricultural University, Assam etc. Maps are also being prepared by the GIS Team from AMTRON is working on the preparation of maps in various layers. However, it has been stated that the results from the tests, surveys etc are delayed due to the floods and the lockdown due to COVID 19. The Committee awaits the results of these surveys and intends to undertake a detailed 

--- PAGE 76 ---
 
75  
 
review of the ground situation during its site visit. The Committee has also requested the PCB, Assam to conduct an independent toxicity test of the Maguri-Motapung wetland and the same is awaited. 7. The reports of the local stakeholders and the experts also include recommendations on remedial measures. Such measures include an ecological restoration plan, comprehensive ecological monitoring, expansion of the eco sensitive zone, ban on further oil drilling in and around the Maguri-Motapung wetland, which are presently under deliberation by the Committee. The Committee will submit its suggestions in its next Report along with the findings of the site visit and the results of the tests. 8. The Committee is, however, of the unanimous view, that it is necessary to set up/induct a multidisciplinary team comprising of community members along with experts on wetland ecology, hydrology, fisheries, water birds’ specialists and others who will report to the Committee and will be responsible to formulate a restoration plan for the Maguri-Motapung wetland and also to ascertain the extent of damages and the compensation to be fixed for that purpose. The Committee, in its subsequent report shall make necessary recommendations for payment of compensation by the Pollutor for restoration of the damages caused to the eco-system. III. Socioeconomic Loss  a. Affected Households and Population  1. Report dated 05.07.2020 received from the Office of the District Administration prepared by the Circle Officer, Doomdooma indicate that a detailed assessment of the actual affected areas and the affected pattadars is ongoing in Baghjan Gaon, Natun Rongagorha Gaon and adjoining areas, which will be shared with the Committee immediately upon completion. Till date, the Office of the District Administration has furnished the recorded Pattadars including Patta number, Dag numbers under 500 meter radius and under 501-1000 meter radius. The details are appended hereto as Appendix-E. Considering the proportion and intensity of the oil blow out and the explosion, the Committee has requested the DC, Tinsukia to undertake a detailed assessment of the villages, households and individuals, 

--- PAGE 77 ---
 
76  
 
specifically those who have been severely, moderately and marginally affected, the extent of damage to immovable property, the loss of livestock, damage to standing crops and horticulture, damages to fisheries etc. The report is awaited. 2. As per the reports of the Gaonburah dated 14.07.2020 furnished by the Office of the District Administration, till date, 46 households within the vicinity of 200-250 meters, including 11 completely burned households, have been severely impacted. It has been indicated that due to the flood situation in the area and the fire, which was still burning then, it was difficult to conduct the survey and has accordingly sought more time to complete the task. A Copy of the report of the circle officer, Doomdooma as furnished by the DC, Tinsukia is appended hereto as Appendix-F. 3. Ground reports from local stakeholders suggest that the incident has severely affected a radius of 6 kms from the Baghjan Oil Well No.5. Further, areas within the radius of 6-10 kms have been moderately affected. Reports from local individuals indicate that the smell of oil has engulfed the entire landscape and was also felt from around 10 km away from the site of the explosion. Local stakeholders have described dense coatings of oil film on plant life, water bodies, agricultural fields, gardens and manmade structures. They have further suggested that cultivation within the severely impacted zone within the radius of 6 kms won’t possible for at least another 20 years, causing irreparable loss to the community. Second- order impacts such as damage to homes due to tremors from the blowout, impact on children’s education etc. has also been widely reported due to the sound and earth tremors arising from the blowout. Many local residents also report heavy damage to homes from the earth tremors generated by the oil well blowout. One of the interviews mentioned in the representation submitted by Sri Niranta Gohain claim that the oil well blowout has damaged the area culturally and its heritage had been completely dismantled. 4. It is pertinent to note here that immediately in the aftermath of the Gas Blowout at Well Baghjan-5, a total of 4 relief camps were set up wherein 1610 families has been accommodated with provisions for health, sanitation and drinking water facilities in association with OIL. On 09.06.2020, after the explosion, villagers from within a radius of 2-3 km from the site of the explosion took shelter in school building beyond a distance of 3 kms designated as relief camps. Till date, there are a total number of 12 relief camps, as informed by DC, Tinsukia, which have been set up for 

--- PAGE 78 ---
 
77  
 
families affected by the blowout and explosion. Further, due to the increasing tremor in the houses, many families from Natun Rongaorha Gaon, which is across the Maguri-Motapung wetland, in the western site of the Well Baghjan-5 have taken shelter in the relief camp set up at Guijan High School. b. Health hazard caused to the public  1. The hazardous releases have left the community is a precarious position. Studies report that the sound pollution in the area is excessive and is detrimental to both human and animal life. The noise level in 12 km radius of 70db or above is higher than standard limits set by WHO and CPCB and is not suitable for both human and animal life. In prolonged period, it may result in hearing loss and many other ailments. Representations received from local stakeholders and affected communities indicate that the drinking water available from tube-wells have become undrinkable because of an odour after the blowout apart from new forms of disease creeping up among the population. 2. The representation also enclosed short transcripts of 83 interviews with residents of 11 villages in the vicinity of the site of incident. All of these interviewees have reported health related impacts of the blowout. Of the 83 interviewees, 44 interviewees reported both health related impacts. All the interviewees unanimously mention some form of adverse health impact such as breathing difficulty, headache from the incessant sound from the oil well, damage to cultivation, polluted drinking water etc. The reports of the local stakeholders on health impacts are corroborated with the medical records, as furnished by OIL, of individuals presently under treatment in the hospitals. It is recommended that an immediate medical assessment be undertaken by a team of medical experts to ascertain the acute and chronic effects on the affected population. 3. In this context, it is pertinent to mention that representation from all local stakeholders’ express concern over the living and hygiene conditions in the overcrowded relief camps. As per the information furnished by OIL, 1961 families with 9107 persons are staying at 10 relief camps. This, by itself, indicates that social distancing norms and sanitation facilities are under severe constrain as alleged by the local representatives. Such vulnerability faced by the villagers expose them a higher risk of contracting 

--- PAGE 79 ---
 
78  
 
infectious and communicable diseases and particularly susceptible to COVID 19. Although, till date, no COVID positive tests have been reported from the existing relief camps, it is specifically recommended that regular screening for COVID is conducted and as and when necessary. It is further recommended that adequate number of relief camps with adequate health and sanitation facilities be set up by the Office of the District Administration and OIL, in conformity with the COVID-19 guidelines issued by WHO, Government of India and Government of Assam. Furthermore, it is specifically recommended that all individuals presently being accommodated in the relief camps be provided with immediate health safeguards, including insurance cover for COVID 19. IV.  Remedial Measures by OIL  Post remedial efforts undertaken by OIL, as per the information made available to the Committee is stated to inter-alia include the following :  i. OIL has engaged M/s ERM India Pvt. Ltd., a leading global service provider of environmental, health, safety, risk consulting services, to conduct an Impact Assessment to review the site surroundings and the affected areas around Well Baghjan-5 in order to identity the environmental & ecological impacts and community health issues and recommend remedial measures. The study includes inter-alia an assessment of the air quality, contamination of surface, ground water and soil, impact to biodiversity. ii. OIL has engaged the Energy Research Institute (TERI) with the objective to recuperate the original properties of soil and water that has been contaminated by the spillage and suggest bio remedial measures. This would also enclose an assessment of the impact/contamination to the surface water, ground water and soil in the affected areas. iii. Competent authorities from Assam Agriculture University have been engaged to assess the damage to crops, trees, plants including paddy, tea, fruits and vegetables in the area affected in the aftermath of the Blowout. iv. CSIR NEIST has been requested to assess the vibrations and tremors that are being experienced in and around the vicinity of the Well Baghjan-5. 

--- PAGE 80 ---
 
79  
 
v. An amount of Rupees Nine Crores has been deposited with the Office of the District Administration towards payment of one time compensation to the families residing in the relief camps. vi. 10 relief camps are presently being managed together by OIL and the Office of the District Administration. 1961 families are being accommodated in these relief camps. OIL has designated one officer per camp to oversee the management of the camps. Regular visits with representatives of the Office of the District Administration on a daily basis. Further, a team of two doctors and five para medicos are stationed at oil installations in Baghjan with medicine and ambulances. Medical camps are being regularly conducted at the relief camps by OIL doctors, local hospitals and ARMY doctors. Medical cases reporting high fever with symptoms are being referred to the AMCH, Dibrugarh for COVID tests. So far, no cases of COVID 19 have been reported from the relief camps. A net expenditure of Rupees Eighteen Crores and Ninety two Lacs towards providing relief and rehabilitation to the affected areas have been spent, till date.   B. Assessment of compensation for the survivors 1. From the aforesaid discussions, it is prima facie concluded that the well Baghjan-5 blowout and subsequent explosion has led to extensive damage to both the publicly owned resources including the Maguri-Motapung wetland, DSNP, the Eco- Sensitive Zone including the water bodies, air, wildlife and the natural resources surrounding it as well as caused irreparable physical harm and damage to privately owned property of the survivors in the affected villages. As pointed out by the local representatives and the Office of the District Administration, the affected families and individuals are in immediate need of funds to address the consequences of the hazardous spills and releases. According to the report of the Gaonburah, while the severely affected families as assessed within the immediate vicinity of the explosion site have suffered grave physical harm to persons and property, others in villages such as Natun Rongapara Gaon have incurred some economic harm and health hazards. The plight of the affected families and individuals have been compounded due to the ongoing flood situation and the spike in COVID 19 cases that have been witnessed in the last few days. 

--- PAGE 81 ---
 
80  
 
2. The Committee has been apprised by the DC, Tinsukia that based on consultation held on 05.06.2020 with select villagers of Baghjan Gaon, Baghjan Gaon Milanjyoti Yuba Sangha, SP, Tinsukia and representatives of OIL that a one-time compensation amounting to Rs. 30000 has been agreed to be paid by OIL to the affected families as an immediate relief as per the list available with the Circle Officer, Doomdooma. On the basis of the report of the Circle Officer, Doomdooma, the process of disbursing the one-time compensation has been initiated and amount has been credited to the bank accounts of approximately 1049 families. It was further agreed during the consultation that affected families whose names have been left out of the list would be included after due verification. In this context, it be mentioned that the local representatives have forwarded a list of excluded affected families and individuals to the Committee, which has been forwarded to the DC, Tinsukia with a direction for inclusion after due verification by the concerned circle officers. A list of all the affected persons verified by the circle officer, Doomdooma is appended hereto as Appendix-G. 3. Further, the Committee has been informed by the DC, Tinsukia vide his letter dated 17.07.2020 that 11 residential houses were found to have been burnt completely after a detailed assessment undertaken by the Office of the District Administration along with the Public Works Department. At a tripartite meeting between Baghjan Gaon Milonjyoti Yuba Sangha, OIL and the District Administration, an amount of Rs. 20 Lacs was proposed by OIL and the District Administration as advance to be adjusted in due course against the total amount payable for the damage sustained by the eleven severely affected families. However, at the objection raised by the Baghjan Gaon Milonjyoti Yuba Sangha, to the suggestion of the amount being offered as ‘advance’, it was agreed that the amount of Rs.20 Lacs would be paid as compensation and the question of ‘adjustment against the advance’ would be decided by the competent authority / Hon’ble NGT. The letter further states that the process of disbursing the amount of Rs. 20 lacs will be initiated shortly. 4. Additionally, a one-time compensation of Rs.25000/- is being awarded to each of the affected families and individuals who had shifted to the relief camps in the wake of the explosion in well Baghjan-5 on 09.06.2020. 709 numbers of such affected families have been identified till date by the Circle Officer, Doomdooma and the money is in the 

--- PAGE 82 ---
 
81  
 
process of being disbursed by the Office of the District Administration. A copy of the list of the 709 affected families and individuals have been appended to as Appendix-H. 5. Further, it is pertinent to note that, quite apart from the aforesaid measures, the survivors of the blowout and the explosion are also entitled to claim damages under the Public Liability Insurance Act, 1991, Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Hazardous and Other Wastes (Management & Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016. In fact, the Public Liability Insurance, 1991 vide Section 3 provides for a ‘no fault’ liability which mandates the ‘owner’ to provide relief to any person who has sustained any injury or damage to any property from an accident. Further, Section 4 of the said Act casts a statutory duty on the ‘owner’, in this case OIL, to take out insurance policies before handling any hazardous substance. To a specific query raised by the Committee, OIL has furnished details of two such policies. However, from the facts made available to the Committee, it is impossible to ascertain when these policies were made, if the policies concerned Well Baghjan-5 and the time period/duration for which it was made. The Committee is presently reviewing the documents to ascertain any possible violations under the said Act. However, prima facie the Committee is of the view that the provisions of Section 4 of the Public Liability Insurance Act, 1991 has been violated. 6. Based on the preliminary assessment, till date, the Committee is of the unanimous opinion that the Well Baghjan-5 blowout and explosion was preventable. Further, the hazardous release has impacted lives in a variety of ways and effected lives differently. Further, the Committee is of the view that in furthering the cause of environmental justice, people whose lives have been impacted must be meaningfully involved to participate in decisions that affect their lives, environment and health. In pursuing this approach, the Committee has therefore sought the assistance and called for representations from the local communities including representatives such as Baghjan Gaon Milonjyoti Yuba Sangha. The Committee has received some response till date, however, await the detailed responses including representations from Baghjan Gaon Milonjyoti Yuba Sangha. The Committee also intends to meet the affected families and individuals, visit the relief camps during its site visit to ensure that compensation measures commensurate with the principles of environmental, social and distributive justice. Having said that, the Committee is however unanimous in its view that there 

--- PAGE 83 ---
 
82  
 
exist enough grounds to consider the question of interim compensation for the affected families and villagers. Be it stated that the above measures are being recommended only as interim relief and not to be construed as the final compensation which will be assessed subsequently and will include all remedial costs. 7. The expert reports and representations of local stakeholders indicate prima facie the disproportionate impact of the Well Baghjan-5 blowout and explosion on the families and villages within the vicinity of the disaster site and/or the neighboring areas. Therefore, in order to facilitate procedural, distributive, social justice, it is necessary to enlarge the class of survivors who are entitled to compensation. The Committee, therefore, proposes the formulation of three categories of affected families to assess the question of interim compensation namely – i) Those whose houses have been completely gutted by the fire thereby causing grave injury to life and health, loss of livelihood, cultivable land, livestock, damage to standing crops and horticulture, fisheries etc. ii) Those whose houses have been severely damaged thereby causing grave injury to life and health, loss of livelihood, cultivable land, livestock, damage to standing crops and horticulture, fisheries etc. iii) Those whose houses have been moderately/partially damaged or whose standing crops and horticulture have been partially damaged thereby causing injury to life and health, loss of livelihood, cultivable land, livestock, damaged to fisheries etc. iv) The scale of interim compensation is as follows : Category (i) – Rs.25 Lacs Category (ii) – Rs.10 Lacs Category (iii) – Rs.2.5 Lacs  The Committee while making the recommendations for interim measures have borne in mind the health hazards as well as the possible effect caused due to the noise, air and water pollution. The Committee is of the view that the aforesaid classification must be made by the Office of the District Administration expeditiously and in consultation with the concerned circle officers, the Gaonburahs and the community representatives of the affected villages. 

--- PAGE 84 ---
 
83  
 
8. Based on the above discussion, the Committee recommends the following : i) An initial amount of Rs.25 Lacs will be released immediately to all the affected under category (i) whose information is already available with the Office of the District Administration. For the affected families under category, (ii) the amount of 10 lacs will be released immediately within an outer limit of 15 days, based on the information already available with the Office of the District Administration. The compensation amount, if any already paid, shall be deducted from the aforesaid amount of interim compensation. ii) The Office of the District Administration will compile a list of all those in Category (iii), who have been moderately / partially impacted, in consultation with the revenue officers, PWD, concerned circle officer, the Gaonburahs and community representatives of the affected villages. The disbursement of the amount will be completed expeditiously within an outer limit of 45 days from the passing of the order by the Hon’ble NGT for interim compensation. iii) The affected families, particularly under category (i) and (ii), whose names have been left out of the list would be entitled to the said amount after due verification within 7 days from the passing of the order by the Hon’ble NGT for interim compensation and the same will be disbursed within 15 days from the date of completion of the verification. iv) The interim compensation will be paid by OIL and from the funds which have already been made available to the Office of the District Administration. The balance amount, if any, will be made available immediately by OIL and as and when asked by the Office of the District Administration. v) One-time compensation amounting to Rs.30,000/- that has been agreed to be paid by OIL to the affected families, who had moved to the relief camps due to Well Baghjan-5 blowout on 27.05.2020, as an immediate relief, will be disbursed immediately as per the list prepared by the circle officer, Doomdooma and available with the Office of the District Administration and not later than 7 days from the passing of the order by the Hon’ble NGT for interim compensation. The affected families whose names have been left out of the list would be entitled to the 

--- PAGE 85 ---
 
84  
 
said amount after due verification and the same will be disbursed within 15 days from the passing of the order by the Hon’ble NGT for interim compensation. vi) One-time compensation of Rs.25,000/- will be disbursed to each of the affected families and individuals who had shifted to the relief camps in the wake of the explosion in Well Baghjan-5 on 09.06.2020 as an immediate relief as per the list prepared by the Circle officer, Doomdooma and available with the Office of the District Administration and not later than 7 days from  the passing of the order by the Hon’ble NGT for interim compensation. The affected families whose names have been left out of the list would be entitled to the said amount after due verification and the same will be disbursed within 15 days from the passing of the order by the Hon’ble NGT for interim compensation. vii) The interim compensation as well as the one time compensation, as stated above, will be credited directly to the bank accounts of the affected families and individuals by the Office of the District Administration. The said interim compensation is non recoverable and will be adjusted against the final compensation due to the affected families and individuals. viii) An immediate health insurance policy including COVID 19 will be made available by OIL to all affected individuals and families by the Well Baghjan-5 blowout and explosion and who are presently taking shelter in the relief camps within 7 days from the passing of the order by the Hon’ble NGT for interim compensation.  *** 

--- PAGE 86 ---
 
85  
 
Chapter – VI Conclusions   Based on the preliminary assessment, the Committee has arrived the following preliminary findings, which are subject to further consideration by the Committee. In the interim, the Committee is also of the unanimous view that the well Baghjan-5 blowout and subsequent explosion has led to extensive damage to both the publicly owned resources including the Maguri-Motapung wetland, DSNP, the eco sensitive zone including the water bodies, air, wildlife and the natural resources surrounding it. Additionally, it has caused irreparable physical harm and damage to privately owned property of the survivors in the affected villages. The Committee therefore concludes the preliminary report with suggested interim measure including compensation for the affected families and individuals.  A. Preliminary Inferences I. The probable reasons of Well Baghjan-5 blowout and explosion are as under: a. There was deficiency in understanding of the gravity of a critical operation like removal of BOP without having a confirmed and tested secondary safety barrier. b. There was deficiency in proper planning of critical operations. There was a clear mismatch between planning and its execution at site and deviations from the Standard Operating Procedure. c. There were serious deficiencies of proper level of supervision of critical operation at the well site both from the Contractor as well as from OIL. II.  OIL did not have the mandatory Consent to Establish and Consent to Operate both under the Section 25 & 26 of the Water (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, under Section 21 of the Air (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act and the Ruled framed thereunder, when it first started its drilling operations in Well Baghjan-5 in 2006.  III.  On the day of the blowout of Well Baghjan-5 i.e. 27.05.2020 and subsequent explosion on 09.06.2020, OIL did not have the mandatory Consent to Establish and Consent to Operate both under Section 25 & 26 of the Water (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, under Section 21 of the Air (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act and the Rules framed thereunder and/or the authorization Rule 6 of the Hazardous Waste (Management, Handling and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016. 

--- PAGE 87 ---
 
86  
 
IV.  OIL, till date, does not have the required Consent to Establish and/or Consent to Operate to either carry our drilling and testing of hydrocarbons in Well Baghjan-5 under the DSNP Area, except for the years 2008-09, 2012-13, 2018-19, under Section 25 & 26 of the Water (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, under Section 21 of the Air (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act and the Rules framed thereunder and/or the authorization required Rule 6 of the Hazardous Waste (Management, Handling and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016 which is in clear violation of the conditions stipulated in the  Environmental Clearance dated 11.05.2020.  B. Preliminary Interim Measures  I. Immediate Preventive Measures to Avoid Similar Blowout and Explosions (i) It is pertinent to note that the handling of Gas wells is different than Oil wells. Therefore, it is necessary to have different SOP for Gas wells. (ii) Isolation of any Hydrocarbon bearing Zone by a secondary barrier is critical and ought to be planned carefully. Such well situation cannot be relied upon only on Hydrostatic Head of well Fluid. There ought to be proper secondary safety barrier, which are tested both positively and negatively to check its integrity before attending any critical operation in the well like nipple down of BOP. (iii) Placement of secondary safety barrier must be placed as near to the perforated zone and should not placed anywhere in the well. (iv) Placement of Cement Plug is to be always done in the vertical portion of Casing. If required to place Cement Plug in a deviated well, either a perforated Tubing/ Drill pipe shoe is to be used and the string ought to be rotated during placement of cement slurry by using swivel joint or use the swivel joint with Kelly of the Rig. After balancing the Plug, the string needs to be pulled out slowly and while breaking the joints, Rotary is to be used to break the joint which will help cement slurry to spill all around and also to fall smoothly from inside string. (v) It is important to design Cement Slurry with water loss additive to control water loss from cement slurry to bare minimum during setting of cement. Retarder may also be added to get the desired thickening time. Compressive Strength of the designed slurry are to be tested at 12hours, 24 hours and 36 hours.  

--- PAGE 88 ---
 
87  
 
(vi) Before doing any critical operation in well, a comprehensive contingency Plan must be made available to face any eventuality. In this particular well due to not having any such Plan. II.  Restoration Plan for Maguri-Motapung Wetland 1. The Committee is of the unanimous view, that it is necessary to set up/induct a multidisciplinary team comprising of community members along with experts on wetland ecology, hydrology, fisheries, water birds’ specialists and others who will report to the Committee and will be responsible to formulate a restoration plan for the Maguri-Motapung wetland and also to ascertain the extent of damages and the compensation to be fixed for that purpose. The Committee, in its subsequent report shall make necessary recommendations for payment of compensation by the Pollutor for restoration of the damages caused to the eco-system. III. Health Safeguards in Relief Camps 1.  It is specifically recommended that regular screening for COVID is conducted and as and when necessary. It is further recommended that adequate number of relief camps with adequate health and sanitation facilities be set up by the Office of the District Administration together with OIL, in conformity with the COVID-19 guidelines issued by the WHO, Government of India and Government of Assam. Furthermore, it is specifically recommended that all individuals presently being accommodated in the relief camps be provided with immediate health safeguards, including insurance cover for COVID 19. IV. Interim Compensation to the affected families 1.  The Committee, proposes the formulation of three categories of affected families to assess the question of interim compensation namely ;  i) Those whose houses have been completely gutted by the fire thereby causing grave injury to life and health, loss of livelihood, cultivable land, livestock, damage to standing crops and horticulture, fisheries etc. ii) Those whose houses have been severely damaged thereby causing grave injury to life and health, loss of livelihood, cultivable land, livestock, damage to standing crops and horticulture, fisheries etc. 

--- PAGE 89 ---
 
88  
 
iii) Those whose houses have been moderately/partially damaged or whose standing crops and horticulture have been partially damaged thereby causing injury to life and health, loss of livelihood, cultivable land, livestock, damaged to fisheries etc. iv) The scale of interim compensation is as follows : Category (i) – Rs.25 Lacs Category (ii) – Rs.10 Lacs Category (iii) – Rs.2.5 Lacs 2. An initial amount of Rs.25 Lacs will be released immediately to all the affected under category (i) whose information is already available with the Office of the District Administration. For the affected families under category, (ii) the amount of 10 lacs will be released immediately within an outer limit of 15 days, based on the information already available with the Office of the District Administration. The compensation amount, if any already paid, shall be deducted from the aforesaid amount of interim compensation. 3. The Office of the District Administration will compile a list of all those in Category (iii), who have been moderately / partially impacted, in consultation with the revenue officers, PWD, concerned circle officer, the Gaonburahs and community representatives of the affected villages. The disbursement of the amount will be completed expeditiously within an outer limit of 45 days from the passing of the order by the Hon’ble NGT for interim compensation. 4. The affected families, particularly under category (i) and (ii), whose names have been left out of the list would be entitled to the said amount after due verification within 7 days from the passing of the order by the Hon’ble NGT for interim compensation and the same will be disbursed within 15 days from the date of completion of the verification. 5. The interim compensation will be paid by OIL and from the funds which have already been made available to the Office of the District Administration. The balance amount, if any, will be made available immediately by OIL and as and when asked by the Office of the District Administration. 

--- PAGE 90 ---


--- PAGE 91 ---
  
  
  PRELIMINARY REPORT  of  The Committee of Experts constituted by the Hon’ble National Green Tribunal, Principal Bench, New Delhi  headed by  JUSTICE BROJENDRA PRASAD KATAKEY, FORMER JUDGE,  GAUHATI HIGH COURT, GUWAHATI  Submitted to  THE HON’BLE NATIONAL GREEN TRIBUNAL, PRINCIPAL BENCH, NEW DELHI   On 24.07.2020   Volume II  Constituted vide Order dated Order dated 24.06.2020 in O.A No. 43/2020/EZ and O.A No.44/2020/EZ to look into issues concerning Well Baghjan -5 in Tinsukia, Assam
90

--- PAGE 92 ---
INDEX
Appendix Particulars Pages
Appendix A Report dated 15.07.2020 of 
the Wildlife Institute of India.
1-156
Appendix B Colly Show Cause Notice dated 
10.06.2020 issued by PCB, 
Assam to OIL;
Reply to Show Cause Notice 
dated 19.06.2020 by OIL to 
PCB, Assam;
C l o s u r e N o t i c e d a t e d 
19.06.2020 issued by PCB, 
Assam dated 19.06.2020;
Affidavit by OIL India Ltd. 
dated 22.06.2020 to PCB, 
Assam;
Letter dated 22.06.2020 
withdrawing the Closure 
Notice dated 19.06.2020 
issued by PCB, Assam.
157-168
Appendix C Consent Application (CTE/
NOC and CTO) submitted by 
OIL to the PCB, Assam vide 
OIL Letter Ref No. S&E/E/
20/723 dated 05.07.2006.
169-174
91

--- PAGE 93 ---
Appendix D Order  dated  07.09.2017 
passed by the Hon’ble 
Supreme Court of India In Re 
T.N. Godavarman Vs Union 
of India 
175-177
Appendix E Report dated 05.07.2020 
received from the Office of 
the District Administration 
prepared by the Circle 
Officer, Doomdooma along 
with annexures.
178-183
Appendix F Report of the Circle Officer 
dated 14.07.2020 including 
the list of 11 affected families 
whose houses have been 
completlely burnt down as 
f u r n i s h e d b y t h e D C , 
Tinsukia to the Committee.
184-188
Appendix G List of affected families 
e n t i t l e d t o a o n e - t i m e 
compensation of Rs. 30,000, 
duly verified by the Circle 
Officer, Doomdooma who 
had moved to the relief 
camps due to the Well 
Baghjan-5 Blow out on 
27.05.2020.
189-250
92

--- PAGE 94 ---
Appendix H List of affected families 
e n t i t l e d t o a o n e - t i m e 
compensation of Rs. 25,000, 
duly verified by the Circle 
Officer, Doomdooma who 
had moved to the relief 
camps due to the Well 
Baghjan -5 explosion on 
09.06.2020.
251-302
Appendix I List of References for 
Chapter 3 of the Preliminary 
Report 
303-304
93

--- PAGE 95 ---
94

--- PAGE 96 ---
95

--- PAGE 97 ---
96

--- PAGE 98 ---
97

--- PAGE 99 ---
98

--- PAGE 100 ---
99

--- PAGE 101 ---
100

--- PAGE 102 ---
101

--- PAGE 103 ---
102

--- PAGE 104 ---
103

--- PAGE 105 ---
104

--- PAGE 106 ---
105

--- PAGE 107 ---
106

--- PAGE 108 ---
107

--- PAGE 109 ---
108

--- PAGE 110 ---
109

--- PAGE 111 ---
110

--- PAGE 112 ---
111

--- PAGE 113 ---
112

--- PAGE 114 ---
113

--- PAGE 115 ---
114

--- PAGE 116 ---
115

--- PAGE 117 ---
116

--- PAGE 118 ---
117

--- PAGE 119 ---
118

--- PAGE 120 ---
119

--- PAGE 121 ---
120

--- PAGE 122 ---
121

--- PAGE 123 ---
122

--- PAGE 124 ---
123

--- PAGE 125 ---
124

--- PAGE 126 ---
125

--- PAGE 127 ---
126

--- PAGE 128 ---
127

--- PAGE 129 ---
128

--- PAGE 130 ---
129

--- PAGE 131 ---
130

--- PAGE 132 ---
131

--- PAGE 133 ---
132

--- PAGE 134 ---
133

--- PAGE 135 ---
134

--- PAGE 136 ---
135

--- PAGE 137 ---
136

--- PAGE 138 ---
137

--- PAGE 139 ---
138

--- PAGE 140 ---
139

--- PAGE 141 ---
140

--- PAGE 142 ---
141

--- PAGE 143 ---
142

--- PAGE 144 ---
143

--- PAGE 145 ---
144

--- PAGE 146 ---
145

--- PAGE 147 ---
146

--- PAGE 148 ---
147

--- PAGE 149 ---
148

--- PAGE 150 ---
149

--- PAGE 151 ---
150

--- PAGE 152 ---
151

--- PAGE 153 ---
152

--- PAGE 154 ---
153

--- PAGE 155 ---
154

--- PAGE 156 ---
155

--- PAGE 157 ---
156

--- PAGE 158 ---
157

--- PAGE 159 ---
158

--- PAGE 160 ---
159

--- PAGE 161 ---
160

--- PAGE 162 ---
161

--- PAGE 163 ---
162

--- PAGE 164 ---
163

--- PAGE 165 ---
164

--- PAGE 166 ---
165

--- PAGE 167 ---
166

--- PAGE 168 ---
167

--- PAGE 169 ---
168

--- PAGE 170 ---
169

--- PAGE 171 ---
170

--- PAGE 172 ---
171

--- PAGE 173 ---
172

--- PAGE 174 ---
173

--- PAGE 175 ---
174

--- PAGE 176 ---
175

--- PAGE 177 ---
176

--- PAGE 178 ---
177

--- PAGE 179 ---
178

--- PAGE 180 ---
179

--- PAGE 181 ---
180

--- PAGE 182 ---
181

--- PAGE 183 ---
182

--- PAGE 184 ---
183

--- PAGE 185 ---
184

--- PAGE 186 ---
185

--- PAGE 187 ---
186

--- PAGE 188 ---
187

--- PAGE 189 ---
188

--- PAGE 190 ---
189

--- PAGE 191 ---
190

--- PAGE 192 ---
191

--- PAGE 193 ---
192

--- PAGE 194 ---
193

--- PAGE 195 ---
194

--- PAGE 196 ---
195

--- PAGE 197 ---
196

--- PAGE 198 ---
197

--- PAGE 199 ---
198

--- PAGE 200 ---
199

--- PAGE 201 ---
200

--- PAGE 202 ---
201

--- PAGE 203 ---
202

--- PAGE 204 ---
203

--- PAGE 205 ---
204

--- PAGE 206 ---
205

--- PAGE 207 ---
206

--- PAGE 208 ---
207

--- PAGE 209 ---
208

--- PAGE 210 ---
209

--- PAGE 211 ---
210

--- PAGE 212 ---
211

--- PAGE 213 ---
212

--- PAGE 214 ---
213

--- PAGE 215 ---
214

--- PAGE 216 ---
215

--- PAGE 217 ---
216

--- PAGE 218 ---
217

--- PAGE 219 ---
218

--- PAGE 220 ---
219

--- PAGE 221 ---
220

--- PAGE 222 ---
221

--- PAGE 223 ---
222

--- PAGE 224 ---
223

--- PAGE 225 ---
224

--- PAGE 226 ---
225

--- PAGE 227 ---
226

--- PAGE 228 ---
227

--- PAGE 229 ---
228

--- PAGE 230 ---
229

--- PAGE 231 ---
230

--- PAGE 232 ---
231

--- PAGE 233 ---
232

--- PAGE 234 ---
233

--- PAGE 235 ---
234

--- PAGE 236 ---
235

--- PAGE 237 ---
236

--- PAGE 238 ---
237

--- PAGE 239 ---
238

--- PAGE 240 ---
239

--- PAGE 241 ---
240

--- PAGE 242 ---
241

--- PAGE 243 ---
242

--- PAGE 244 ---
243

--- PAGE 245 ---
244

--- PAGE 246 ---
245

--- PAGE 247 ---
246

--- PAGE 248 ---
247

--- PAGE 249 ---
248

--- PAGE 250 ---
249

--- PAGE 251 ---
250

--- PAGE 252 ---
251

--- PAGE 253 ---
252

--- PAGE 254 ---
253

--- PAGE 255 ---
254

--- PAGE 256 ---
255

--- PAGE 257 ---
256

--- PAGE 258 ---
257

--- PAGE 259 ---
258

--- PAGE 260 ---
259

--- PAGE 261 ---
260

--- PAGE 262 ---
261

--- PAGE 263 ---
262

--- PAGE 264 ---
263

--- PAGE 265 ---
264

--- PAGE 266 ---
265

--- PAGE 267 ---
266

--- PAGE 268 ---
267

--- PAGE 269 ---
268

--- PAGE 270 ---
269

--- PAGE 271 ---
270

--- PAGE 272 ---
271

--- PAGE 273 ---
272

--- PAGE 274 ---
273

--- PAGE 275 ---
274

--- PAGE 276 ---
275

--- PAGE 277 ---
276

--- PAGE 278 ---
277

--- PAGE 279 ---
278

--- PAGE 280 ---
279

--- PAGE 281 ---
280

--- PAGE 282 ---
281

--- PAGE 283 ---
282

--- PAGE 284 ---
283

--- PAGE 285 ---
284

--- PAGE 286 ---
285

--- PAGE 287 ---
286

--- PAGE 288 ---
287

--- PAGE 289 ---
288

--- PAGE 290 ---
289

--- PAGE 291 ---
290

--- PAGE 292 ---
291

--- PAGE 293 ---
292

--- PAGE 294 ---
293

--- PAGE 295 ---
294

--- PAGE 296 ---
295

--- PAGE 297 ---
296

--- PAGE 298 ---
297

--- PAGE 299 ---
298

--- PAGE 300 ---
299

--- PAGE 301 ---
300

--- PAGE 302 ---
301

--- PAGE 303 ---
302

--- PAGE 304 ---
303

--- PAGE 305 ---
304

--- PAGE 306 ---
305

--- PAGE 307 ---
306

--- PAGE 308 ---
307

--- PAGE 309 ---
308

--- PAGE 310 ---
309

--- PAGE 311 ---
310

--- PAGE 312 ---
311

--- PAGE 313 ---
312

--- PAGE 314 ---
313

--- PAGE 315 ---
314

--- PAGE 316 ---
315

--- PAGE 317 ---
316

--- PAGE 318 ---
317

--- PAGE 319 ---
318

--- PAGE 320 ---
319

--- PAGE 321 ---
320

--- PAGE 322 ---
321

--- PAGE 323 ---
322

--- PAGE 324 ---
323

--- PAGE 325 ---
324

--- PAGE 326 ---
325

--- PAGE 327 ---
326

--- PAGE 328 ---
327

--- PAGE 329 ---
328

--- PAGE 330 ---
329

--- PAGE 331 ---
330

--- PAGE 332 ---
331

--- PAGE 333 ---
332

--- PAGE 334 ---
333

--- PAGE 335 ---
334

--- PAGE 336 ---
335

--- PAGE 337 ---
336

--- PAGE 338 ---
337

--- PAGE 339 ---
338

--- PAGE 340 ---
339

--- PAGE 341 ---
340

--- PAGE 342 ---
341

--- PAGE 343 ---
342

--- PAGE 344 ---
343

--- PAGE 345 ---
344

--- PAGE 346 ---
345

--- PAGE 347 ---
346

--- PAGE 348 ---
347

--- PAGE 349 ---
348

--- PAGE 350 ---
349

--- PAGE 351 ---
350

--- PAGE 352 ---
351

--- PAGE 353 ---
352

--- PAGE 354 ---
353

--- PAGE 355 ---
354

--- PAGE 356 ---
355

--- PAGE 357 ---
356

--- PAGE 358 ---
357

--- PAGE 359 ---
358

--- PAGE 360 ---
359

--- PAGE 361 ---
360

--- PAGE 362 ---
361

--- PAGE 363 ---
362

--- PAGE 364 ---
363

--- PAGE 365 ---
364

--- PAGE 366 ---
365

--- PAGE 367 ---
366

--- PAGE 368 ---
367

--- PAGE 369 ---
368

--- PAGE 370 ---
369

--- PAGE 371 ---
370

--- PAGE 372 ---
371

--- PAGE 373 ---
372

--- PAGE 374 ---
373

--- PAGE 375 ---
374

--- PAGE 376 ---
375

--- PAGE 377 ---
376

--- PAGE 378 ---
377

--- PAGE 379 ---
378

--- PAGE 380 ---
379

--- PAGE 381 ---
380

--- PAGE 382 ---
381

--- PAGE 383 ---
382

--- PAGE 384 ---
383

--- PAGE 385 ---
384

--- PAGE 386 ---
385

--- PAGE 387 ---
386

--- PAGE 388 ---
387

--- PAGE 389 ---
388

--- PAGE 390 ---
389

--- PAGE 391 ---
390

--- PAGE 392 ---
391

--- PAGE 393 ---
392

--- PAGE 394 ---
393

--- PAGE 395 ---
394

--- PAGE 396 ---
395

--- PAGE 397 ---
396

--- PAGE 398 ---
397

--- PAGE 399 ---
 
1 
 
Item Nos. 03 & 13        Court No. 1  
  
BEFORE THE NATIONAL GREEN TRIBUNAL  
PRINCIPAL BENCH, NEW DELHI 
 
(By Video Conferencing) 
 
 
I.A. No. 30/2020  
 
(For modification/recall of order dated 24.6.2020)  
IN 
Original Application No. 43/2020(EZ) 
 
Bonani Kakkar                          Applicant(s) 
Versus  
 
Oil India Limited & Ors.                   Respondent(s) 
AND 
 
I.A. No. 31/2020 
 
(For modification/recall of order dated 24.6.2020)  
  
IN 
Original Application No. 44/2020(EZ) 
 
Wildlife and Environment 
Conservation Organisation                         Applicant(s) 
Versus  
 
Union of India & Ors.                     Respondent(s) 
 
 
 
Date of hearing: 02.07.2020 
 
 
 
CORAM: HON’BLE MR. JUSTICE ADARSH KUMAR GOEL, CHAIRPERSON  
     HON’BLE MR. JUSTICE S. P. WANGDI, JUDICIAL MEMBER 
     HON’BLE DR. SATYAWAN SINGH GARBYAL, EXPERT MEMBER 
    
 
  
 Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, Senior Advocate with Mr. Parthive K.    
 Goswami and Mr. Rahul Pratap, Advocates for OIL – Applicant in IAs – 
original respondent in the OAs    
    
Mr. Siddhartha Mitra, Senior Advocate with Ms. Shruti Agarwal,   
 Advocate – for original applicants – opposite parties in IAs 
 
      
 
ORDER 
 
 
 
 
1. This order will dispose of I.A. No. 30/2020 in O.A. No. 43/2020 
(EZ) and I.A. No. 31/2020 in O.A. No. 44/2020(EZ) as both the 
398

--- PAGE 400 ---
 
2 
 
applications are same for all purposes , seeking modification/recall of 
common order passed by this Tribunal on 24.6.2020 in two original 
applications filed on same issue. 
 
2. The issue pertains to claim for compensation to the victims and to 
the environment on account of damage in an incident of oil well blow out 
on 27.05.2020 at Baghjan in the Tinsukia District of Assam and other 
consequential events that followed . Case of the applicant s is that 
Baghjan  Oil well set up by the Oil India Limited (OIL) released propane, 
methane, propylene and other gases causing damage to bamboo groves, 
tea gardens, banana trees and betel nut trees in the area and also spread 
into the Dibru -Saikhowa National Park which, according to the 
Applicant, records over 40 mammals, 500 species of birds, 104 fish 
species, 105 butterfly species and 680 types of plants including a wide 
variety of rare o rchids.  The area harbours tiger, elephant, wild buffalo, 
leopard, hoolock gibbon, capped langur, slow loris, Gangetic dolphin, 
besides critically endangered bird species such as the Bengal Florican, 
White Winged Duck, Greater Adjutant stork, White rumped vulture, 
slender billed vulture as well as the rare and endemic Black -breasted 
parrotbill. The oil also spilled into the Dibru river causing a film of oil in 
the river that passes through the Maguri -Motapung wetlands, an 
Important Bird and Biodiversity Are a, and along the Dibru Saikhowa 
National Park. The  Maguri-Motapung Wetland, located less than 10 km 
from Dibru -Saikhowa National Park, is a part of the Dibru -Saikhowa 
Biosphere Reserve (DSBR) and hosts some of the most vulnerable species 
of birds such as Swamp Francolin, Marsh Babbler, Greater Adjutant and 
Pallas's Fish -eagle, Red -headed Vulture and White -bellied Heron, and 
over 80 species of fish. River Dibru is a tributary of River Lohit which 
then forms rive r Brahmaputra in the lower reaches. Brahmaputra  river 
399

--- PAGE 401 ---
 
3 
 
system is also a home to Gangetic dolphins. As a result of the blow -out, 
there was also a fire on 09.06.2020. The applicant has also stated that 
the blow-out has left behind huge volumes of residue as gas condensate 
which is a mixture of chemical co mpounds that are toxic for land and 
vegetation and is a known carcinogen. The blowout is not only hazardous 
to the health of the people but also severely affect their livelihood whose 
occupation is mainly agriculture, fishing and animal rearing.  1610 
families were displaced as a result of the gas leak.  
 
3. This Tribunal , vide order dated 24.06.2020 , considered the 
material placed on record by the applicants in two cases being OA 
43/2020(EZ) and OA 44/2020(EZ) and issued notice. The Tribunal also 
constituted an Expert Committee headed by a former Judge of the 
Gauhati High Court with seven other members as follows: 
 
1 Hon’ble Mr. Justice B.P. Katakey, 
former Judge of the Gauhati High 
Court. 
: Chairman 
2 Member Secretary, Central Pollution 
Control Board (Online, if travel is 
restricted due to Covid-19) 
: Member 
3 A senior expert from Council of 
Scientific and Industrial Research 
(CSIR) 
(Online, if travel is restricted due to 
Covid-19) 
: Member 
4 Dr. Sarbeswar Kalita, Professor and 
Head of the Department of 
Environment Science, Guwahati 
University 
: Member 
5 Shri. Abhay Kumar Johari, IFS 
(retired), Former Member 
Biodiversity Board 
: Member 
6 
 
  7 
Shri Ajit Hazarika, Ex-Chairman, 
ONGCL  
Member Secretary/Senior        
Scientist, Assam State Pollution 
Control Board 
: Member 
8 District Magistrate, Tinsukia 
District, Assam 
: Member 
 
400

--- PAGE 402 ---
 
4 
 
 The Committee is also granted liberty to co-opt as member or seek 
opinion from any other expert/ experts or institution/institutions 
including Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, if felt necessary. The 
terms of reference on which the Committee is to give a report are: 
 
i. Cause of gas and oil leak; 
ii. Extent of loss and damage caused to human life, wildlife, 
environment; 
iii. Damage and health hazard caused to the public; 
iv. Whether any contamination has been caused to water, air 
and soil of the area of the oil well and its vicinity; 
v. Extent of contamination of water of the Dibru river due to the 
oil spill; 
vi. For the purpose of (iv) and (v) above, it may be necessary to 
get the air quality monitored and, samples of soil and ground 
water of the area as well as the water  of river Dibru 
downstream of the oil spill tested;  
vii.  Impact on the eco sensitive zone of the Dibru -Saikhowa 
National Park and Maguri-Motapung Wetland; 
viii. Impact on agriculture, Fishery and domestic animals in the 
area; 
ix. Whether there were any m itigation measure put in place by 
OIL to offset the incidents such as the one in question; 
x. Persons responsible for the fire incidents and the cause of 
failure to prevent the incident; 
xi. Assessment of compensation for the victims and cost of 
restitution of the damage caused to property and the 
environment; 
xii. Preventive and remedial measures; 
401

--- PAGE 403 ---
 
5 
 
xiii. Any other incidental or allied issues. 
 
The Committee is also to dwell on the action taken thus far either by the 
Government or by the OIL or by any other agency and the expenditure 
incurred towards mitigation. Opportunity is also to be provided to the 
Respondent OIL to give its views and submissions.   
 
The Tribunal also directed deposit of an interim amount of Rs. 25 crores 
to meet the cost of remediation of the damage to the environment, bio -
diversity, human, wildlife and public health subject to final assessment. 
 
4. We have heard Shri Mukul Roh atgi, learned Senior Counsel 
appearing for OIL  in support of the applications filed by the OIL for 
modification/recall of the order dated 24.06.2020  which have been 
opposed by the Original Applicants represented by Shri Mitra, Senior 
Advocate. 
 
5.   It is submitted by Shri Rohtagi that the order passed by this 
Tribunal did not take into account the fact that on the same issue 
proceedings have been taken before the Gauhati High Court . The Central 
as well as State Government s have ordered enquiries. The Tribunal also 
did not take into the fact that the company itself ha s taken several 
measures for rehabilitation of the  displaced families by setting up relief 
camps and providing food and other facilities. T he OIL has also 
deposited a sum of Rs. 4.83 crores with the District Magistrate, 
Tinsukia District as an interim relief for the affected families as per 
directions of the D istrict Magistrate . The OIL has also set apart a 
budget of more than Rs. 130 crores towards operation cost in 
controlling the blow-out at Baghjan . It has also hired international 
experts for remediation for the damage caused on account of the blow-
402

--- PAGE 404 ---
 
6 
 
out and is undertaking requisite remediation and rehabilitation work s. 
He submitted that the Committee is unnecessary and so is the direction 
to deposit the amount of Rs.25 crore with the District Magistrate as the 
OIL is public Sector undertaking committed t o compensate the 
victims and restitute the environment. It will pay whatever amount 
required on its liability being ascertained, apart from voluntary 
steps already taken.  
 
6. We do not find any ground for recall  of the impugned order but are 
inclined to modify it with regard to immediate deposit of Rs.25 crore i n 
view of the discussion as shall follow. Even though the order was passed 
ex-parte, the  basis of the order remains even after consider ing the 
present IAs and after hearing learned senior counsel. I ncident and 
damage remain largely undisputed.  The Committee has been asked to 
undertake site visit and compile relevant information necessary for 
adjudication of the issue falling within the jurisdiction of this Tribunal 
under sections 14 and 15 of the NGT A ct read with section 20. The 
Committee is also to consider the viewpoint of the OIL  which would 
include steps already taken or planned for rehabilitation of the victims 
and restitution of the environment.  Other enquiries are not a substitute 
for the information sought to be gathered by this Tribunal for exercise of 
its jurisdiction which is sui generis as laid down in Bhopal Gas P eedith 
Mahila Udyog Sangathan  case (2012) 8 SCC  326 and Meghalaya Mining 
case, (2019) 8 SCC 177 . Other enquiries are perhaps for discharge of 
functions of State and Central Govt under different statutes. Proceedings 
before High Court may involve several issues while this Tribunal is 
mandated by the statute to perform its functions within the four corners 
of its jurisdiction. Actions initiated by the company are in discharge of its 
duties but the same does not end jurisdiction of this Tribunal.  Under 
403

--- PAGE 405 ---
 
7 
 
the law, liability for compensation of occupier undertaking hazardous 
activity is absolute in view of MC Mehta v UOI, (1987) 1 SCC 395.  
Further, liability of the Occupier as well as concerned the regulatory 
authorities of the State and Central govt has to be undergone under the 
Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemical Rules, 1989 
and the Chemical Accidents (Emergency Planning , Preparedness and 
Response) Rules, 1996. In these circumstances, recall of order 
constituting Committee to compile all relevant facts and data in a 
transparent and fair manner is not called for. Doing so will be failure of 
the Tribunal to exercise its jur isdiction. All steps taken by the OIL can 
also be looked into by the Committee in the course of its 
recommendations. 
 
7. We may refer to a recent order of this Tribunal dealing with 
another tragedy on account of toxic gas leak at Vizag being order dated 
2.6. 2019 in OA 73/2020 In re: LG Polymer Chemical Plant  wherein 
similar pleas of a company were rejected. It was observed that safety of 
citizens and the environment are o f great concern calling  for strict 
action for failure at all levels and strengthening the regulatory 
mechanism. While the State must take action against its erring 
authorities for such failure, MoEF&CC must review its monitor ing 
mechanism, criminal or other administrative issue may be gone into in 
any other proceedings, adjudication of liab ility of the company with 
regard to compensation by this Tribunal is not debarred . The Tribunal 
direct the State and Central Govts to perform their duties as per 1989 
and 1996 Rules and other provisions . Operative part of some of the 
directions in the said case is:  
“Restoration plan  may be prepared by a Committee comprising two 
representatives each of MoEF&CC, CPCB and three representatives of 
State Government to be named by the Chief Secretary, including the 
404

--- PAGE 406 ---
 
8 
 
District Magistrate, Vishakhapatnam and such ot her concerned 
Departments within two months from today. MoEF&CC will be the 
nodal agency for the purpose. 
 
Final quantification of compensation may be assessed by a 
Committee comprising representatives of MoEF&CC, CPCB and NEERI. 
The said Committee will be  at liberty to associate/co -opt any other 
expert institution or individual. The Secretary, MoEF&CC may ensure 
constitution of such Committee within two weeks from today. The 
Committee may give its report within two months thereafter. MoEF&CC 
will be the nodal agency for the purpose. 
 
 
The Chief Secretary, Andhra Pradesh may identify and take 
appropriate action against persons responsible for failure of law in 
permitting the Company to operate without statutory clearances within 
two months and give a report to this Tribunal 
  
The MoEF&CC may also constitute an Expert Committee to 
suggest ways and means to revamp monitoring mechanism to 
check and prevent violation of environmental norms and preventing any 
such recurrence in future in any of the establishments dealing with 
hazardous chemicals. A special drive may be initiated in this regard. 
An action taken report may be furnished within three months from 
today.” 
 
 
8. We may now consider the prayer for deferment of the  direction to 
deposit a sum of Rs.25 crore with the Distt. Magistrate to meet the 
liability for compensation to the victims and the cost of restoration of the 
environment.  Shri  Rohtagi has stated that some amount has been 
deposited with the Distt. Magistrate but, i t is not clear whether the 
amount has been disbursed or  not and what the disbursement plan for 
relief to the victims is, apart from shelter and food which are said to have 
been provided. The Committee has been requested to suggest the amount 
of compensation which will include suggesting disbursement and 
restoration plan. The OIL is stated to have set  apart more than Rs.25 
crore and Shri Rohtagi also categorically assures that OIL being a public 
sector undertaking, there will be no difficulty in promptly maki ng 
available whatever amount required for discharge of its liability. In view 
of this assurance, we defer our direction for deposit of Rs. 25 crore till 
the actual amount and its disbursement plan are worked out in the light 
405

--- PAGE 407 ---
 
9 
 
of the report of the Committee after considering viewpoint of victims as 
well as the OIL. However, adequacy of steps taken by OIL will have to be 
looked into by the Committee and then by t his Tribunal following  due 
process of law. 
9. Accordingly, the applications including I.A. No. 32/2020 which is 
formal stand disposed of in the above terms. The Chief Secretary, Assam 
may give action taken report with regard to the liability of the concerned 
officers of the State and MoEF&CC may also consider this incident in its 
report to be filed in OA  73/2020relating to revamping of regulatory 
framework and strategies to ensur e that such incidents do not occur to 
prevent harm to public health and environment and to ensure further 
safety norms and safeguards.  
 
 List for further consideration on the date already fixed i.e. 
29.07.2020. 
 
A copy of this order be sent to the Chief Secretary, Assam, 
Secretary MoEF&CC, Justice Katakey and other members of the 
Committee by email.  
     
Adarsh Kumar Goel, CP 
 
 
 
S. P. Wangdi, JM 
 
 
 
Dr. Satyawan Singh Garbyal, EM 
July 2, 2020 
I.A. Nos. 30 & 32/2020 
In OA 43/2020 with 
IA 31/2020 in OA 44/2020  
DV 
406

