--- PAGE 1 ---


--- PAGE 2 ---


--- PAGE 3 ---


--- PAGE 4 ---
Page 1 of 7  
▪ Name of the Project: Onshore Oil and Gas Development Drilling and Production 
involving Onshore drilling of additional wells, Production facilities and laying of assorted 
oil & gas flowlines/delivery lines by M/s. OIL INDIA LIMITED in District Tinsukia, 
Assam. 
▪ Clearance L. No and date: IA-J-11011/375/2016-IA II (I) Dated 28th December, 2020. 
▪ Period of Compliance Report: April 2025 to September 2025. 
▪ Status of the Project: No drilling activity has been started. 
 
Sl. 
No. 
EC Condition Compliance status 
1 Project Proponent reported that in Baghjan Well 
suddenly became very active and has resulted 
into a blowout at around 10.30 AM 27.05.2020. 
Consequence upon incident of blowout and 
subsequence fire, various Govt. Authorities 
have constituted committees to enquire into the 
cause of the Blowout. Oil is yet to receive 
committee’s report, except the Report of Oil 
Industry Safety Directorate (OISD). Hon’ble 
HC in PIL No. 93/2020 
(Gautam Uzir) has directed the Committee 
constituted by Govt. of Assam and MoPNG as 
well as OIL India Ltd. To submit their 
respective reports before the court in sealed 
cover as the Court was of the opinion that the 
findings of these Committee’s may be 
overlapping.   OIL   shall   implement 
recommendations of the Committees. 
Complied 
 
OIL has implemented the 
recommendations of the committees 
constituted post Baghjan blowout such 
as Bioremediation of the affected area, 
plantation of 50,000 saplings in the 
Baghjan #5 plinth using Akira 
Miyawaki method. Also, OIL is 
carrying out video surveillance of the 
Baghjan#5 area using CCTV. 
Also, OIL will comply with the 
recommendations of the nine- member 
committee formed vide 
NGT order dated 10.03.2023. 
2 The Environmental Clearance (EC) is subject to 
orders/ judgment of Hon’ble Supreme Court of 
India, Hon’ble High Court, Hon’ble NGT and 
any other Court of Law, as may be 
applicable to this project. 
Agreed 
3 The environmental clearance is a subject to 
obtaining prior clearance from the wildlife 
angle, including clearance from the Standing 
Committee of the National Board for Wildlife, 
as applicable. Grant of environmental clearance 
does not necessarily imply that Wildlife 
Clearance. Grant of environmental clearance 
does not necessarily imply that wildlife 
clearance shall be granted to the project and that 
their proposals for Wildlife Clearance will be 
considered by the respective authorities  on 
their merits and decision taken. 
Will be complied.  
No drilling activity is carried out within 
deemed ESZ of any National Park/ 
Wildlife Sanctuary 
4 The environment clearance granted to the 
project/activity is strictly under the 
provisions of the EIA Notification 2006 and 
Will be complied.  
Consent To Establish (CTE) and 
Consent To Operate (CTO) were 

--- PAGE 5 ---
Page 2 of 7  
 its amendments. It does not tantamount/construe 
to approvals/consent/permissions etc. required 
to be obtained or standards/conditions to be 
followed under any other Acts/ Rules/ 
Subordinate legislations, etc., as may be 
applicable to the project. The project proponent 
shall obtain necessary permission as mandated 
under the Water (Prevention and Control of 
Pollution) Act, 1974 and the Air (Prevention 
And Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 as 
applicable from time to time, from the State 
Pollution Control Board, prior to construction 
& operation of the project. 
obtained before commencement of 
drilling/production activities. 
5 The company shall comply with all the 
environmental protection measures and 
safeguards proposed in the documents 
submitted to the Ministry. All the 
recommendations made in the EIA/EMP in 
respect of environmental management, and risk  
mitigation  measures  relating  to  the 
project shall be implemented. 
Will be complied.  
All the environmental protection 
measures proposed in the EIA – EMP 
are being implemented. 
6 The activities and the action plan proposed by 
the project proponent to address the public 
hearing and socio-economic issues in the study 
area shall be completed as per the schedule 
presented before the committee and as described 
in the EMP report in letter and spirit. All the 
commitments made during public  hearing  
shall  be  satisfactorily implemented. 
Being Complied 
7 No pipeline or its part shall be laid in the 
Forest  land/Protected  Area  without  prior 
permission/approval from the Competent 
Authority. 
Will be complied.  
No pipeline is laid in the Forest land/ 
National Park. 
8 Forest Clearance/Wild Life Clearance/ ESZ 
Clearance shall be obtained from the concerned 
regulatory authority, if applicable to the 
project. Drilling in the forest area and area 
beneath it shall not be carried out without 
prior permission. 
Will be complied.  
Forest Clearance/ Wildlife Clearance 
will be obtained if drilling is carried out 
in the forest land or within the deemed 
ESZ of any National Park/ Wildlife 
Sanctuary. 
9 As proposed by the project proponent, Zero 
Liquid Discharged shall be ensured and no 
waste/treated water shall be discharged to any 
surface water body, sea and/or on land. Mobile 
ETP along with RO plant shall be 
installed to treat the wastewater. 
Will be complied.  
Zero Liquid Discharge is maintained at 
the drilling locations. Mobile ETP 
coupled with RO is installed to treat 
the wastewater. 
10 During exploration, production, storage and 
handling, the fugitive emissions of methane, 
Will be complied.  
Portable  Multi-  gas  detector  & 

--- PAGE 6 ---
Page 3 of 7  
 if any, shall be monitored using Infra-red 
camera/ appropriate technology. 
Explosimeter are used to detect 
fugitive emissions of Methane (if 
any). 
11 The project proponent also to ensure 
trapping/storing of the CO2 generated, if any, 
using the process and handling. 
Will be Complied 
CO2 generated (if any) will be 
trapped/ stored. 
12 Approach road shall be made pucca to 
minimize generation of suspended dust. 
Will be complied.  
Approach road to the drilling locations 
and Production Installations are made 
pucca to minimize generation of 
suspended dust. 
13 The company shall make all arrangements for 
control of noise from the drilling activity. 
Acoustic enclosures shall be provided for the 
DG sets along with the adequate stack height as 
per CPCB guidelines. 
Will be complied.  
Regular maintenance of equipment/ 
machinery is carried out to minimize 
noise generation. DG sets are provided 
with acoustic enclosures and adequate 
Stack Height as per CPCB guidelines.  
 
14 Total fresh water requirement shall not exceed 
40 cum/day/well proposed to be met through 
tanks. Mobile ETP shall be installed to treat the 
waste water and efforts shall be made for 
gradual reduction in daily intake of water (to 
reduce fresh water foot print) by suitable 
mechanism or by putting RO facility in place 
coupled with onsite mobile ETP. Size of the 
waste shall be equal to the hole volume+ volume 
of drill cutting and volume of discarded mud if 
any. Two feet free board may be left to 
accommodate rain water. There shall be 
separate storm water channel and rain water 
shall not be allowed to mix with waste water. 
Alternatively, if possible pit less drilling be 
practiced instead of above. 
Will be complied.  
Total freshwater consumption is within 
the permitted limit. Groundwater 
abstraction by Oil India Ltd for drilling 
activities are exempted from obtaining 
NOC from Central Ground Water 
Authority (CGWA) as per the Public 
Note dated 01.08.2023. Copy of the 
same is enclosed as Annexure – E. 
Mobile ETP coupled with RO is 
installed to treat effluent generated 
from drilling location. Storm water is 
not allowed to mix with wastewater.  
15 The company shall construct the garland drain 
to prevent runoff of any oil containing waste 
into the nearby water bodies. Separate drainage 
system shall be created for oil contaminated and 
non-oil contaminated. 
Will be complied.  
Garland drains are constructed around 
the drilling location to prevent runoff 
any oil containing waste into the nearby 
water bodies. Separate drainage 
system is created for oil contaminated 
and non- oil contaminated. 
16 Drill cuttings separated from drilling fluid Will be complied. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
Page 4 of 7  
 shall be adequately washed and disposed in 
HDPE lined pit. Waste mud shall be tested 
for hazardous contaminants and disposed 
according to HWMH Rules, 2016. No 
effluent/drilling mud shall comply with the 
guidelines for disposal of soiled waste; drill 
cutting and drilling fluids for onshore drilling 
operation notified vide GSR.546 (E) dated 30th 
August, 2005. 
Drill cuttings separated from drilling 
fluid are adequately washed and 
disposed in HDPE lined pit. No 
effluent/ drilling mud is 
discharged/disposed off into nearby 
surface water bodies.  
17 Oil spillage prevention and mitigation scheme 
shall be prepared. In case of oil spillage/ 
contamination, action plan shall be prepared to 
clean the site by adopting proven technology. 
The recycles waste (oily sludge) and spent oil 
shall be disposed of to the authorized recyclers. 
Will be complied.  
In case of Oil spillage/ contamination, 
action will be taken as per the Oil spill 
contingency plan prepared by OIL. 
Recyclable waste (oily sludge) and 
spent oil is sent to Pollution Control 
Board, Assam 
authorized recyclers. 
18 The proponent shall take necessary measures to 
prevent fire hazards, containing oil spill and 
soil remediation as needed. At fixed 
installations or plants use of ground flare shall 
be explored. At the place of ground flaring, the 
overhead flaring stack with knockout drums 
shall be installed to minimize gaseous   
emissions during operation. 
Will be complied.  
Fixed firefighting system is installed at 
drilling locations and in case of any oil 
spillage, necessary remediation actions 
will be taken as per the Oil Spill 
Contingency Plan. 
19 The project proponent shall develop a 
contingency plan for H2S release including all 
necessary aspects from evacuation to 
resumption of normal operations. The workers 
shall be provided with personal H2S detectors in 
locations of high risk of exposure along with 
self-containing breathing apparatus. 
Will be complied.  
Contingency Plan for H2S release is in 
place. OIL never encountered H2S and 
no such evidence exists in our field 
of operation. However, multi-gas 
detector and Self Containing Breathing 
Apparatus (SCBA) will be kept 
available to meet the emergency 
situation, if any. 
20 Blowout Preventer system shall be installed 
to prevent well blowout during drilling 
operations. 
Will be complied.  
Blow Out Preventer (BOP) system is 
installed to prevent blowouts 
during drilling operations. 
21 On completion of the project, necessary 
measures shall be taken for safe plugging of 
wells with secured enclosures to restore the 
drilling site to the original condition. The same 
shall be confirmed by the concerned regulatory 
authority from environment safety angle. In 
case of hydrocarbon not found 
economically viable, a full abandonment plan 
Will be complied 
On completion of the drilling activity, 
plugging of abandoned wells will be 
carried out as per the OIL’s Well 
Abandonment, Site Restoration and 
Reclamation policy. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
Page 5 of 7  
 shall be implemented for the drilling site in 
accordance with the applicable DGH/Indian 
Petroleum Regulations. 
 
22 No lead acid batteries shall be utilized in the 
project/site. 
Will be complied.  
No lead acid batteries are utilized 
at the drilling location. 
23 Occupational health surveillance of the workers 
shall be carried out as per the prevailing Acts and 
rules. All workers & employees shall be provided 
with required safety kits/mask for personal 
protection. 
Will be complied.  
Occupational Health Surveillance of 
workers engaged in drilling operation 
is being carried out on regular basis. 
All workers & employees engaged in 
drilling operation will be provided 
with Personal Protective  Equipment 
(PPE).  
24 Oil content in the drill cuttings shall be monitored 
and report & shall sent to the Ministry’s Regional 
Office. 
Will be complied. 
 
25 The project proponent shall prepare operating 
manual in respect of all activities, which would 
cover all Safety & Environment related issues 
and measures to be taken for protection. One set 
of environment manual shall be made available at 
the drilling site/project site. Awareness shall be 
created at each level of the management. All the 
schedules and results of environmental 
monitoring shall be available at the project site 
office. Remote monitoring of site should be done. 
Will be complied.  
SOPs for all the operations covering 
safety and environment related issues 
are prepared. OIL has prepared 
Environmental manual which is made 
available at the drilling location. Copy 
of the same is enclosed Annexure – 
B. Also, all the environmental 
monitoring reports related to ambient 
air quality, Stack Gas monitoring, 
ETP effluent, Noise level are 
maintained at the drilling location. 
 
General Conditions: 
Sl. 
No. 
EC Condition Compliance status 
1 No further expansion or modifications in the Complied. 
 plant,  other  than  mentioned  in  the  EIA No further expansion or 
 Notification, 2006 and its amendments, shall modification other than mentioned 
 be  carried  out  without  prior  approval  of in the EIA Notification, 2006 and its 
 Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate amendments,  will  be  carried  out 
 Change/ SEIAA, as applicable. In case of without prior approval of the 
 deviations or alterations in the project proposal Ministry  of  Environment,  Forest 
 from  those  submitted  to  this  Ministry  for and Climate Change. 
 clearance, a fresh reference shall be made to  
 the Ministry/SEIAA, as applicable, to assess  
 the adequately of conditions imposed and to  
 add additional environmental protection  
 measures required, if any.  

--- PAGE 9 ---
Page 6 of 7  
2 The energy source for lighting purpose shall be 
preferably LED based, or advanced having 
preference  in  energy  conservation  and 
environment betterment. 
Will be complied. 
LED lights are utilized for lighting 
purpose in drilling locations 
3 The overall noise levels in and around the plant 
area shall be kept well within the standards by 
providing noise control measures including 
acoustic hoods, silencers, enclosures etc. on all 
sources of noise generation. The ambient noise 
levels shall conform to the standards prescribed 
under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 
Rules, 1989 viz. 75 dBA (day time) and 70 dBA 
(Night time) 
Will be complied. Noise level at the 
drilling locations is kept within the 
permissible limits by providing 
acoustic enclosures around the DG 
sets.  
4 The company shall undertake all relevant 
measures for improving the socioeconomic 
conditions of the surrounding area. CER 
activities shall be undertaken by involving local 
villages and administration and shall be 
implemented. The company shall undertake eco-
developmental measures including community 
welfare measures in the project area  for  the  
overall  improvement  of  the environment. 
Being Complied. 
5 The company shall earmark sufficient funds 
towards capital cost and recurring cost per annum 
to implement the conditions stipulated by the 
Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate 
Change as well as the State Government along 
with the implementation schedule for all the 
conditions stipulated herein. The funds so 
earmarked for environment management/ 
pollution control measures shall not be diverted 
for any other purpose. 
Will be complied. 
6 A copy of the clearance letter shall be sent by the 
project proponent to concerned Panchayat, Zila 
Parishad/ Municipal Corporation, Urban local 
body and the local NGO, if any, from whom  
suggestions/  representations,  if  any, 
were received while processing the proposal. 
Will be complied. 
7 The project proponent shall also submit six 
monthly reports on the status of compliance of 
the stipulated Environmental Clearance 
conditions including results of monitored data 
(both in hard copies as well as by e-mail) to the 
respective Regional Office of MoEF & CC, the 
respective Zonal Office of CPCB and SPCB. A 
copy of Environmental Clearance and six 
monthly compliance status reports shall be 
posted on the website of the company. 
Will be complied.  
EC compliance report for the period 
October 2024 to March 2025 was 
submitted to Sub-Office 
(MoEF&CC), Guwahati, Zonal 
Office CPCB, Shillong and Chairman 
- Pollution Control Board Assam vide 
L.No. S&E/E/43C- 1/624  dated    
29.05.2025 . Also,  copy of the 
EC and  Six - monthly compliance 

--- PAGE 10 ---
Page 7 of 7  
  report are uploaded to OILwebsite 
under the links https://www.oil- 
india.com/environmental- 
compliance-grants   & 
https://www.oil- 
india.com/environmental- 
compliance-reports respectively. 
8 The environmental statement for each financial 
year ending 31st March in Form-V as is mandated 
shall be submitted to the concerned State 
Pollution Control Board as prescribed under the 
Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986, as 
amended subsequently, shall also be put on the 
website of the company along with the status of 
compliance of environmental clearance 
conditions and shall also be sent to the 
respective Regional Offices of MoEF &CC by e-
mail. 
Will be complied.  
Environment Statement (Form – V) 
for the F.Y. 2023-24 was submitted to 
Pollution Control Board, Assam. 
Copy of the same is enclosed as 
Annexure – C. 
9 The project proponent shall inform the public that 
the project has been accorded environmental 
clearance by the Ministry and copies of the 
clearance letter are available with the SPCB/ 
Committee and may also be seen at Website of 
the Ministry and at https://parivesh.nic.in/. This 
shall be advertised within seven days from the 
date of issue of the clearance letter, at least in 
two local newspapers that are widely circulated 
in the region of which one shall be in the 
vernacular language of the locality concerned 
and a copy 
of the same shall be forwarded to the 
concerned Regional Office of the Ministry. 
Will be complied.  
Advertisement regarding grant of EC 
was published in two newspapers i.e, 
Dainik Janambhumi and The Assam 
Tribune dated 01.01.2021. Copy of 
the advertisement enclosed as 
Annexure – 1. 
10 The project authorities shall inform the Regional 
Office as well as the Ministry, the date of 
financial closure and final approval of the project 
by the concerned authorities and the date of start 
of the project. 
Will be complied. 
11 This Environmental clearance is granted subject 
to final outcome of Hon’ble Supreme Court of 
India, Hon’ble High Court, Hon’ble NGT any 
other Court of Law, if any, as may be applicable 
to this project. 
Agreed. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
 
Annexure-1


--- PAGE 12 ---
 


--- PAGE 13 ---
1 | P a g e
Common Environment Management Plan for Onshore Oil & Gas 
Drilling Activity   
Annexure - B

--- PAGE 14 ---
2 | P a g e 
 
Contents 
S.No Content 
1.0 INTRODUCTION 
2.0 Environmental Management Plan 
3.0 IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
 4.1 Air Quality 
 4.2 Noise Quality  
 4.3 Soil Quality 
 4.4 Water Quality and Hydrogeology 
 4.5 Biological Environment 
 4.6 Socio-Economic Environment 
 4.7 Impact on Community Health & Safety 
4.0 DETAIL ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN 
 5.1 Air Quality Management Plan 
 5.2 Noise Management Plan 
 5.3 Soil Quality Management Plan 
 5.4 Surface Water Quality Management Plan 
 5.5 Ground Water Quality Management Plan 
 5.6 Waste Management Plan 
 5.7 Wildlife Management Plan 
 5.8 Road Safety & Traffic Management Plan 
 5.9 Occupation Health & Safety Management Plan 
 5.10 Management of Social issues and concerns 
 5.11 Emergency Response Plan 
5.0 Environment Management Matrix 
6.0 Summary and Conclusion 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 15 ---
3 | P a g e
1.0 INTRODUCTION: 
OIL INDIA LIMITED (OIL), a Government of India Maharatna Enterprise, is 
currently engaged in carrying out hydrocarbon exploration and production activities 
mostly in its operational areas in Upper Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram in 
the North Eastern part of India. OIL is also undertaking hydrocarbon exploration 
activities in few Indian states and few overseas countries. Oil India Limited was 
incorporated on 18 th February 1959 to expand and develop the newly 
discovered oil fields of Naharkatia and Moran in the Indian North East. In 1961, 
it became a joint venture company between the Indian Government and Burmah Oil 
Company Limited, UK. In 1981, OIL became a wholly owned Government of India 
enterprise. Today, OIL is a premier Indian National Oil Company engaged in 
the business of exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural 
gas, transportation of crude oil and production of LPG. 
Govt. of India and Assam has awarded Petroleum Mining Leases (PML) to OIL for 
exploration and development of oil & gas at Dibrugarh, Chabua, Tinsukia, Hugrujan, 
Naharkatiya Extn, Dholiya and Dumduma areas including the  adjoining areas in 
Dibrugarh, Tinsukia and Sibsagar Districts.  
2.0 Environmental Management Plan 
This Environmental Management Plan and Monitoring Framework is a site-specific 
document for the drilling activities that have been developed to ensure that OIL can 
implement the project in an environmentally conscious manner and where all 
contractors, understand the potential environmental risks arising out of the proposed 
project and take appropriate actions to properly manage such risk. 
This EMP will be an overview document that will guide environmental management of 
all aspects of OIL’s activities i.e. construction and operation of drilling wells. This 
EMP will be backed up by more specific Environmental Action Plans, Procedures and 
Bridging Documents. 
The EMP describes the actions to be adopted in terms of: 
 National Policies and Regulations;
 Best Practices and guides; and
 Local Environmental and Social Sensitivities.

--- PAGE 16 ---
4 | P a g e 
 
 
The Environment Policy of OIL is presented below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 17 ---
5 | P a g e 
 
3.0 IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
The potential impacts arising due to the construction and operation of the drilling 
activitiesare given below: 
3.1 Air Quality: The operation of DG/GG sets, movement of vehicles and machineries   
during construction and drilling at drill sites will result in the generation of air pollutants viz. 
PM, NOx and SOx that may affect the ambient air quality temporarily. Air pollutants like 
particulate matter, hydrocarbons and NOx will also be generated during drilling operations. 
3.2 Noise Quality: Operation of heavy machinery/equipments and vehicular movement 
during site preparatory and road strengthening/construction activities may result in the 
generation of increased noise levels. Operational phase noise impacts are anticipated from 
therunning of drilling rig and ancillary equipment viz. shale shakers, mud pumps and diesel 
generators, gas generators. 
3.3 Soil Quality: Stripping of top soil will affect the soil fertility of the well sites temporarily. 
Potential adverse impacts on soil quality may also result from improper storage and handling 
of fuel, lubricants, drilling mud and drill cuttings. 
3.4 Water Quality and Hydrogeology: All wastewater discharged from the drilling 
operations will be treated in the ETP and discharges will conform to CPCB standards. As the 
volume of water to be discharged is small, it is anticipated to cause minor increase in 
pollution load for specific parameters in receiving water bodies.Uncontrolled surface runoff 
from the drill sites may compose of waste fluids or storm water mixed with oil and grease 
and may pollute the surface water quality. However, the surface runoff will be treated with 
sedimentation tank and oil water separator at site. 
3.5 Biological Environment:  
The existing vegetation at the proposed drill sites, approach roads and RoU of the pipeline 
will be felled for site development.Noise generated from drilling operations and vehicular 
movement within the drill sites and approach roads may affect the reptiles, birds and 
mammals adversely and may result in their moving away from the project area for a 
temporary period. OIL will obtain Forest Clearance from MoEF&CC for drilling within the 
forestlands; all the conditions mentioned in the forest clearance would be complied. Surface 
runoff from the drill sites contaminated with sediment, may reachsurface water channels 
and increase the suspended solids load of the channel water. Increaseof suspended solid will 
increase the turbidity of river water that ultimately will adversely affect the DO level in the 
water. The turbid water and lower DO may affect the primary productivity of the impacted 
areas of the rivers. The process effluent will be adequately treated in the ETP to meet the 
industrial effluent discharge standards. The discharge of treated effluent is not expected to 
cause perceptible changes in the water quality of the receiving stream. 
3.6 Socio-Economic Environment:Approximately 3 ha. land would be required for each 
well.Land will be purchased from local communities however; no physical displacement 
during land procurement is anticipated. Additionally, land will also be procured for 
construction of 100-200 m approach road to the drill site from existing roads. Anticipated 
number of families directly impacted would be limited to 2-5 nos. for each of the drill sites. 
The dependency of the landowner in case of generation of livelihood is limited as the land is 
classified as monocropped agricultural land. 

--- PAGE 18 ---
6 | P a g e 
 
 
OIL/its contractors would endeavour to provide maximum employment to the local people; 
however, certain percentage of semi-skilled and highly skilled migrant labour would be used 
by contractors for manning technical activities. It is anticipated that occasional conflicts 
would arise with the local community over the recruitment of migrant workers. Discomfort 
due to dust and noise to adjoining communities, influx of people are likely to occur. 
The construction phase of the project is likely to generate both direct and indirect 
opportunities for employment. The estimated direct employment would be approximately 50 
un-skilled workers during the peak construction phase that will primarily sourced from 
nearby areas. Indirect employment would be primarily in the supply chain as vendors, which 
are anticipated to be set up to support the construction. 
3.7 Impact on Community Health & Safety:Community health and safety of inhabitants 
residing close to the proposed well sites stand to get affected from frequent heavy vehicular 
movements along village access roads and due to noise from drilling rig operations, 
movement of heavy vehicles during construction etc. 
 
4.0 DETAIL ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN 
4.1 Air Quality Management Plan 
 Vehicles delivering raw materials like fine aggregates will be covered to prevent fugitive emissions. 
 Sprinkling of water on earthworks, material haulage and transportation routes on a regular basis 
during construction and decommissioning phase of the wells. 
 Flare stacks of adequate height would be provided. 
 DG/GG set stacks would have adequate height, as per statutory requirements, to be able to 
adequately disperse exhaust gases 
 Periodic monitoring of DG/GG set stack emission will be carried out in accordance with the 
Environmental Monitoring Plan to assess compliance with CPCB DG set exhaust standards. 
 
4.2 Noise Management Plan 
 Selection and use of low noise generating equipment with in-built engineering controls viz. mufflers, 
silencers, etc. 
 All DG/GG sets would be provided with acoustic enclosures. 
 Appropriate PPEs (e.g. ear plugs) will be used for by workers while working near high noise 
generating equipment. 
 All vehicles utilized in transportation of raw materials and personnel will have valid Pollution under 
Control Certificates (PUC). 
 All high noise generating equipment will be identified and subjected to periodic preventive 
maintenance. 
 No night time operation of vehicles and construction activities will be undertaken. 
 

--- PAGE 19 ---
7 | P a g e 
 
4.3 Soil Quality Management Plan 
 Drip trays to be used during vehicular/equipment maintenance and during re-fuelling operations. 
 Spill kits will be made available at all fuel and lubricant storage areas. All spills/leaks contained, 
reported and cleaned up immediately. 
 Dedicated paved storage area will be identified for the drilling chemicals, fuel, lubricants and oils 
within the drill sites. 
 1.5 mm HDPE lined pits will be considered for the disposal of unusable drilling mud cuttings and 
drilling wastewater etc. 
 
4.4 Surface Water Quality Management Plan 
 Levelling and grading operations will be undertaken with minimal disturbance to the existing site 
contours thereby maintaining the general slope and topographical profile of the site. 
 During site preparation and construction, surface water run-off will be channelized through 
appropriately designed drainage system. 
 Sediment filters and oil-water separators will be installed to intercept run-off and remove sediment 
before it enters water courses.  
 Domestic wastewater generated from drill sites will be treated through septic tank and soak pit 
system and then discharged. 
 Process wastewater would be treated in Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP)at drill sites. 
 
4.5 Ground Water Quality Management Plan 
 Water based mud would be used as a drilling fluid for the proposed project. 
 Eco-friendly synthetic based mud if required for deeper sections, will be used after providing 
intimation to the Pollution Control Board; 
 The drill cutting along with spent mud will be stored in HDPE lined pit. 
 
4.6 Waste Management Plan 
 Use of low toxicity chemicals for the preparation of drilling fluid. 
 Management of drill cuttings, waste drilling mud, waste oil and domestic waste, wastewater in 
accordance with Standards for Emission or Discharge of Environmental Pollutants from Oil Drilling 
and Gas Extraction Industry of CPCB as modified in 2005.  
      The hazardous waste (waste and used oil) will be managed in accordance with Hazardous Waste 
(Management, Handling & Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016. 
     The kitchen waste will be disposed in nearest municipal/village dumping site on a daily basis 
through approved waste handling contractors. 
 The sewage generated will be treated through septic tank and soak pit system. 
 Used batteries will be recycled through the vendors supplying lead acid batteries as required under the 
Batteries (Management & Handling) Rules, 2001.  
 The drilling cuttings pit will be bunded and kept covered using tarpaulin sheets during monsoon. 
 
 

--- PAGE 20 ---
8 | P a g e 
 
4.7 Wildlife Management Plan 
 Movement of heavy vehicles will be restricted at night time, especially if access roads pass though 
forest areas, as most of the mammals movement occurs during night;  
 Noise levels at the drill siteswill be controlled through selection of low noise generating equipment 
and installation of sufficient engineering controls viz. mufflers, silencers etc.  
 No temporary electric supply connection line from the grid will be laid for the proposed project 
activity. All electric requirements will be supplied from the internal DG sets. 
 OIL will have to take Forest Clearance from MoEFCC for development of drill sites, access roads and 
laying of pipeline within forest areas. 
 
 
 
 
4.8 Road Safety & Traffic Management Plan 
 The condition of roads and bridges identified for movement of vehicles and drilling rig will be 
assessed and if required strengthened by OIL to ensure their safe movement. 
 Precautions will be taken by the contractor to avoid damage to the public access routes including 
highways during vehicular movement. 
 Traffic flows will be scheduled wherever practicable during period of increased commuter 
movement. 
 
4.9 Occupation Health & Safety Management Plan 
 All machines to be used in the construction will conform to the relevant Indian Standards (IS) codes,  
will be kept in good working order, will be regularly inspected and properly maintained as per IS 
provisions and to the satisfaction of the site Engineer. 
 Hazardous and risky areas, installations, materials, safety measures, emergency exits, etc. shall be 
appropriately marked. 
 
4.10 Management of Social issues and concerns 
 People from adjoining areas especially given job preference through local contractors according to the 
skill sets possessed. 
 Prior to the commencement of the proposed activity, a consultation program will be conducted by 
OIL with the target groups and local authorities. The primary objective of such consultation will be to 
share with the concerned villagers/stakeholders the objective of the proposed project associated 
impacts and their mitigation.  
 OIL will give more emphasis and priority on periphery development, development of health facilities 
and provision for drinking water facility as per Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Plan. 
 The drill sites would be fenced and gates would be constructed so that the children are refrained from 
straying into the site. 
 
 

--- PAGE 21 ---
9 | P a g e 
 
 
4.11 Emergency Response Plan 
 Drilling rig and related equipment to be used for drilling will be conformed to international 
standards specified for such equipment. 
 Blow-out preventers and related well control equipment shall be installed, operated, maintained and 
tested generally in accordance with internationally recognized standards.  
 Appropriate gas and leak detection system will be made available at each of the drill sites. 
 Adequate fire-fighting equipment shall be provided at each drilling site. 
 
The environmental mitigation measures and plans are presented in form of a matrix according to the 
sequential flow of activities in the project life cycle. The matrix focuses on strategies to be adopted for safe 
guard of the environment from possible impacts resulting out of the project activities. The strategies have 
further been detailed out as management procedures and programmes in subsequent sections. 
The EMP helps establish the linkage between the activities environmental impacts and mitigation measures 
and presents the monitoring framework i.e. the Environmental Performance Indicator (EPI) No. as well as 
the Environmental Quality Indicator (EQI). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 22 ---
10 | P a g e 
 
5.0 Environment Management Matrix 
S No Activity Ref  Aspect Impact Mitigation Measures Monitoring Timing/ Frequency  Responsible Party Related Plans 
1.  
Physical 
Presence of 
drill site, rig 
and other 
machinery. 
1.1 Change in visual 
characteristics of the 
area due to installation 
of drilling setup 
Temporary change 
in landscape  
 
On completion of works (in 
phases) all temporary 
structures, surplus materials 
and wastes will be 
completely removed. Only 
structure required for safety 
purposes would be retained 
on the bare drill site. 
Site Inspection Construction &Drilling OIL/Contractor Waste 
Management 
Plan 
1.2 Increase of illumination 
at night time due to 
installation of drilling 
setup 
Temporary 
disturbance of the 
nearby villagers  
Appropriate shading of lights 
to prevent scattering 
Grievance 
records/ 
Consultation with 
Villagers 
Construction &Drilling OIL/Contractor Management of 
social issues & 
concerns  
1.3 Influx of man power & 
immigrant labour force 
to nearby  villages  
Possibility Cultural 
and behavioural 
conflict  
Preference used of local 
labour forces to the extent 
possible  
Grievance records Construction &Drilling OIL/Contractor Management of 
social issues & 
concerns 
2.  
Storage & 
Handling of 
Materials & 
Spoils  
2.1 Emission of fugitive dust 
from loading & 
unloading operation 
Temporary impact 
on air quality 
especially SPM  
All loading and unloading 
activities to be carried out as 
close as possible to the 
storage facilities. 
Site Inspection Construction &Drilling OIL/Contractor Air Quality 
Management 
2.2 Accidental spillage  of oil 
& chemicals 
Potential 
contamination 
surface water 
body resulting 
impact on aquatic 
ecosystem 
All spills to be reported  and  
contained to prevent entry of 
spilled chemicals/fuels to  
any surface water body or 
drainage channel 
Records of 
spills/Community 
Grievances 
Construction &Drilling OIL/Contractor Surface water 
quality 
management 
plan, Wildlife 
Management 
Plan 
Potential impact 
on soil quality 
All spills to be reported and 
remedial measures to be 
taken for clean-up of the 
spill. 
Records of 
Spills/Site 
Inspection 
Construction &Drilling OIL/Contractor Spill 
management 
plan 
 

--- PAGE 23 ---
11 | P a g e 
 
S No Activity Ref  Aspect Impact Mitigation Measures Monitoring Timing/ Frequency  Responsible Party Related Plans 
3.  
Transport of 
Materials, 
Spoils and 
Machinery 
3.1 Emission of gaseous 
pollutants from vehicle 
during transportation of 
materials, spoils and 
machinery 
Temporary 
deterioration on 
air quality along 
transport route 
All diesel-powered 
equipment will be regularly 
maintained and idling time 
reduced to minimise 
emissions; 
Vehicle / equipment air 
emissions will be controlled 
by good practice procedures 
(such as turning off 
equipment when not in use);  
Vehicle / equipment 
exhausts observed emitting 
significant black smoke in 
their exhausts will be 
serviced/ replaced 
Records and Site 
Inspection 
Construction &Drilling OIL/Contractor Air Quality 
Management 
plan 
3.2 Noise emission during 
transport of materials, 
spoils and machinery 
Temporary 
deterioration in 
ambient noise 
along the 
transportation 
route 
Undertake preventive 
maintenance of vehicles and 
machinery to reduce noise 
levels. 
Restriction on unnecessary 
use of horns by trucks and 
vehicle in settlement area 
Site 
Inspection/Recor
ds of 
repairs 
 
Construction &Drilling OIL/Contractor Noise Quality 
Management 
Plan 
4.  
Operation & 
maintenance 
of rig and 
associated 
machinery. 
4.1 Emission of air pollutant 
from DG/GG sets 
Temporary impact 
on air  quality due 
to increase in 
concentration of 
gaseous pollutants 
e.g. NOx , HC 
Preventive maintenance of 
DG sets to be undertaken as 
per manufacturers schedule 
Site 
Inspection/Recor
ds of 
repairs 
 
Drilling OIL/Contractor Air Quality 
Management 
plan 
4.2 Emission of Noise from 
DG/GG sets 
Temporary 
increase of 
ambient as well a 
All workers working near 
high noise generating 
equipment to be provided 
Recording of 
Noise 
Drilling OIL/Contractor Noise Quality 
Management 
Plan  and 

--- PAGE 24 ---
12 | P a g e 
 
S No Activity Ref  Aspect Impact Mitigation Measures Monitoring Timing/ Frequency  Responsible Party Related Plans 
work place noise 
level   
with Personal Protective 
equipment 
 
Preventive maintenance of 
machinery to be undertaken 
as per manufacturers 
schedule 
 
Install sufficient engineering 
control (mufflers) to reduce 
noise level at source 
Occupational 
Health & Safety 
Management 
Plan 
4.3 Emission of noise from 
operation of the rig 
Temporary 
increase of 
ambient as well a 
work place noise 
level   
All workers working near 
high noise generating 
equipment to be provided 
with Personal Protective 
equipment 
 
Preventive maintenance of 
machinery to be undertaken 
as per manufacturers 
schedule  
Site 
Inspection  
Drilling of Wells OIL/Contractor Noise Quality 
Management 
Plan  and 
Occupational 
Health & Safety 
Management 
Plan 
4.4 Abstraction of ground 
water for project usage 
Depletion of 
ground water 
resources 
Optimize use of water during 
drilling operations 
Record Keeping 
and Auditing  
Construction &Drilling  OIL/Contractor None 
4.5 Noise from mud pump 
during preparation of 
drilling mud 
Temporary 
increase of 
ambient & work 
place noise level   
Preventive maintenance of 
machinery to be undertaken 
as per manufacturers 
schedule  
 
Recording of 
Noise 
 
Drilling of Wells OIL/Contractor Noise Quality 
Management 
Plan  and 
Occupational 
Health &Safety 
Management 

--- PAGE 25 ---
13 | P a g e 
 
S No Activity Ref  Aspect Impact Mitigation Measures Monitoring Timing/ Frequency  Responsible Party Related Plans 
All workers working near 
high noise generating 
equipment to be provided 
with Personal Protective 
equipment 
Plan 
4.6 Accidental spillage of 
chemicals during 
preparation drill mud 
Contamination of 
soil resulting loss 
of soil living 
organism 
Manage spills of 
contaminants on soil 
Records of spills Drilling of Wells OIL/Contractor Spill 
Management 
plan 
4.7 Accidental spillage of 
chemicals during 
preparation drill mud 
Potential impact 
on surface water 
quality and aquatic 
ecosystem 
All spill to be contained so 
that it does not reach any 
surface water body or 
drainage channels 
Records of spills Drilling of Wells OIL/Contractor Surface water 
quality 
management 
plan 
5.  
Operation & 
maintenance 
of Vehicles 
5.1 Emission of Noise from 
vehicles 
Temporary 
increase of noise 
level in areas 
abutting transport 
route 
Preventive maintenance of 
vehicles to be undertaken as 
and when required 
Maintenance 
Records 
 
Construction &Drilling OIL/Contractor Noise quality 
management 
plan 
5.2 Emission of gaseous air 
pollutant from vehicles  
Temporary 
deterioration air 
quality in areas 
abutting transport 
routes 
Preventive maintenance of 
vehicles to be undertaken as 
and when required 
Site 
Inspection/Recor
ds of 
repairs 
 
Construction &Drilling OIL/Contractor Air quality 
management 
plan 
5.3 Spillage of fuels & 
lubricants from vehicles  
Contamination of 
soil resulting loss 
of soil living 
organism 
Adopt best practices e.g. use 
pumps and dispensing nozzle 
for transfer of fuel, use of 
drip trays. Etc. 
Site 
Inspections/Audit
s 
Construction &Drilling OIL/Contractor Spill 
Management 
plan 
Impact on surface 
water quality and 
The drainage system on site 
to be provided with 
Sedimentation tank and Oil-
Site 
Inspection/Audits 
Drilling OIL/Contractor Surface water 
quality 
management 

--- PAGE 26 ---
14 | P a g e 
 
S No Activity Ref  Aspect Impact Mitigation Measures Monitoring Timing/ Frequency  Responsible Party Related Plans 
aquatic ecosystem water Separator to prevent 
contamination especially oil 
and grease from being 
carried off by runoff. 
plan and Spill 
Management 
plan 
6.  
Casing & 
cementing of 
well 
6.1 Noise from machinery 
during preparation of 
cement slurry 
Temporary 
increase of 
ambient noise 
level   
Install sufficient engineering 
control on equipment and 
machineries (like mufflers in 
DG sets) to reduce noise and 
vibration emission levels at 
source, carry out proper 
maintenance and subject 
them to rigid noise and 
vibration control procedures. 
Site 
Inspection  
Drilling of Wells OIL/Contractor Noise quality 
management 
plan 
6.2 Loss of drilling mud and 
cement slurry during 
casing of well 
Potential 
contamination of 
ground water 
aquifer 
Proper engineering controls 
during cementing operation 
to prevent migration of 
drilling mud and cement 
slurry into ground water 
aquifer  
Site 
Inspection  
Drilling of Wells OIL/Contractor Ground water 
quality 
management 
plan  
7.  
Temporary 
storage, 
handling & 
disposal of 
process waste 
 
 
7.1 Accidental spillage of 
process waste (unused 
cement slurry, return 
mud & drill cuttings) at 
the temporary storage 
site 
Potential for 
contamination of 
soil and ground 
water 
Proper engineering controls 
for the drilling and 
cementing operations; 
Drilling  and 
Decommissioning 
Phases  
Drilling  and 
Decommissioning 
Phases  
OIL/Contractor Ground water 
quality 
management 
plan 
7.2 Surface runoff from 
temporary storage site 
of drill cuttings & unused 
mud into surface water 
bodies 
Impact on surface 
water quality and 
aquatic ecosystem 
All Temporary waste storage 
area will have proper bunds 
to prevent any escape of 
contaminated runoff  
 
Ensure that any runoff from 
such temporary storage area 
Site 
Inspection and 
Record keeping 
Drilling  and 
Decommissioning 
Phases  
OIL/Contractor Surface water 
quality 
management 
plan and Spill 
Management 
plan 

--- PAGE 27 ---
15 | P a g e 
 
S No Activity Ref  Aspect Impact Mitigation Measures Monitoring Timing/ Frequency  Responsible Party Related Plans 
are channelized into ETP 
7.3 Accidental 
leakage/spillage of oils 
and lubricants and fuel 
from temporary storages 
Contamination of 
soil  resulting in 
loss of soil living 
organism 
Dispose process waste and 
domestic waste as per 
regulation/ best practices 
Dispose debris and waste in 
designated areas and as per 
plan to prevent degradation 
of land 
Site Inspection Construction &Drilling OIL/Contractor Waste 
Management 
Plan and Spill 
Management 
plan 
7.4 Accidental 
leakage/spillage of oils 
and lubricants from 
temporary storages 
Contamination of 
surface water 
resulting in 
deterioration of 
surface water 
quality and 
adverse impact on 
aquatic ecosystem 
All chemical and fuel storage 
areas will have proper bunds 
so that contaminated run-off 
cannot escape into the 
storm-water drainage 
system. 
The waste pits (waste water 
and drill cuttings) will be 
bounded and covered by 
tarpaulin sheet to prevent 
mixing of runoff water with 
waste water and leachate 
from waste pit and also 
reduce the volume of waste 
water.  
Site Inspection Construction &Drilling OIL/Contractor Waste 
Management 
Plan and Spill 
Management 
plan 
7.5 Disposal/spillage of 
spent oils & lubricants 
into environmental 
media 
Contamination of 
soil resulting loss 
of soil living 
organism 
Contamination of 
surface water 
resulting 
deterioration of 
surface water 
quality and aquatic 
Ensure recycling of spent oil 
& lubricant through 
authorized dealer 
Site Inspection Construction &Drilling OIL/Contractor Waste 
Management 
Plan and Spill 
Management 
plan 

--- PAGE 28 ---
16 | P a g e 
 
S No Activity Ref  Aspect Impact Mitigation Measures Monitoring Timing/ Frequency  Responsible Party Related Plans 
ecosystem 
7.6 Disposal of used battery 
& spent filters in 
environmental media 
Potential for 
contamination of 
soil, ground water 
and surface water 
body 
Ensure recycling of waste 
through authorized waste 
recycler 
Site Inspection 
and Record 
Keeping  
Construction &Drilling OIL/Contractor Waste 
Management 
Plan and Spill 
Management 
plan 
7.7 Offsite disposal of 
metallic, packing, scrap 
Localized visual 
impacts  
 Site  Inspection 
and Record 
Keeping  
Construction &Drilling OIL/Contractor Waste 
Management 
Plan  
8.  
Testing & 
Flaring of 
natural gas 
8.1 Emission of air pollutants 
from flare stack at drill 
site . 
Temporary 
localized 
deterioration air 
quality (NOx, HC) 
Proper engineering controls 
to ensure complete 
combustion  of gas 
Location of Flare stack to be 
chosen considering the 
sensitive receptors adjoining 
the site 
 
 
 
Engineering 
Designs /Site 
inspections 
Construction & Drilling OIL S& E Teamand 
Drilling team 
Waste 
Management 
Plan  
9.  
Storage of 
materials 
(equipment, 
chemicals, 
fuel) 
9.1 Accidental spillage 
during storage and 
handling of materials  
Potential for 
contamination of 
soil & ground 
water 
Impervious storage area, 
especially for fuel & 
lubricant, chemical, 
hazardous waste, etc. 
Site Inspection  Construction &Drilling OIL/Contractor Spill 
Management 
plan 
Safety concerns 
for workers 
involved in 
handing of 
hazardous 
materials 
Personal protective 
equipment to be provided to 
workers involving in handling 
of hazardous materials 
Site Inspection  Construction &Drilling OIL/Contractor Health and 
Safety Plan 

--- PAGE 29 ---
17 | P a g e 
 
S No Activity Ref  Aspect Impact Mitigation Measures Monitoring Timing/ Frequency  Responsible Party Related Plans 
10.  
Technical 
Emergencies  
10.1 Probability of accidental 
leakage of gas/ liquid 
hydro-carbons due to 
failure of safety devices 
Potential adverse 
impact on 
personnel, 
environment & 
assets 
Proper engineering controls 
to prevent leakage of sour 
gases 
Obtain an early warning of 
emergency conditions so as 
to prevent a negative impact 
on personnel, the 
environment, and assets 
Safeguard personnel to 
prevent injuries or loss of life 
by either protecting 
personnel from the hazard 
and/or evacuating them 
from the facilities 
Minimize the impact of such 
an event on the environment 
and the facilities by 
mitigating the potential for 
escalation and, where 
possible, containing the 
release 
Develop evacuation 
procedures to handle 
emergency situations. 
Site Inspection  Drilling OIL/Contractor Emergency 
Response Plan  
11.  
Dismantling of 
rig & 
associated 
machineries 
11.1 Emission of noise during 
dismantling of rig 
Temporary 
deterioration of 
ambient noise 
quality resulting in 
discomfort 
All noise generating activities 
will be restricted during day 
time 
Site Inspection  Well Decommissioning  
Phase 
OIL/Contractor Noise quality 
management 
plan 
11.2 Generation of waste 
during dismantling of rig 
Temporary visual 
impacts 
Storage of waste in 
designated areas only 
recyclable waste should be 
recycled through authorized 
Site Inspection  Well Decommissioning  
Phase 
OIL/Contractor Waste 
Management 
Plan 

--- PAGE 30 ---
18 | P a g e 
 
S No Activity Ref  Aspect Impact Mitigation Measures Monitoring Timing/ Frequency  Responsible Party Related Plans 
water recycler 
11.3 Disposal/spillage of 
spent oils &lubricants 
into environmental 
media 
Contamination of 
soil resulting loss 
of soil living 
organism 
Contamination of 
surface water 
resulting 
deterioration of 
surface water 
quality and aquatic 
ecosystem 
Manage spills of 
contaminants on soil 
Site Inspection 
and Record 
keeping  
Well Decommissioning  
Phase 
OIL/Contractor Waste 
Management 
Plan 
12.  
Transportation 
of drilling 
facilities 
12.1 Emission of gaseous air 
pollutant during 
transportation of drilling 
facilities 
Temporary 
localized 
deterioration of air 
quality due to 
emission gaseous 
pollutants 
Vehicle / equipment air 
emissions will be controlled 
by good practice procedures 
(such as turning off 
equipment when not in use); 
and 
Vehicle / equipment 
exhausts observed emitting 
significant black smoke in 
their exhausts will be 
serviced/ replaced 
Site Inspection 
and Record 
keeping  
Well Decommissioning  
Phase 
OIL/Contractor Air quality 
management 
plan  
12.2 Fugitive emissions due to 
re-entrainment of dust 
during transport of 
drilling facilities 
Temporary 
localized 
deterioration of air 
quality due to 
increase in SPM 
levels 
Approach road to be 
sprinkled daily with water  
Site Inspection  Well Decommissioning  
Phase 
OIL/Contractor Air quality 
management 
plan 
12.3 Emission of noise during 
transport of drilling 
facilities 
Temporary 
deterioration of 
noise quality  
Restrict all noise generating 
operations, except drilling, to 
daytime 
Site Inspection  Well Decommissioning  
Phase 
OIL/Contractor Noise quality 
management 
plan 

--- PAGE 31 ---
19 | P a g e 
 
S No Activity Ref  Aspect Impact Mitigation Measures Monitoring Timing/ Frequency  Responsible Party Related Plans 
Restriction on unnecessary 
use of horns by trucks and 
vehicle in settlement area 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 32 ---
20 | P a g e 
 
 
6.0 Summary and Conclusion 
The EMP  has been made to assess the potential significant adverse environmental effects due to the 
proposed construction and  drilling activities. 
Mitigation measures have been proposed as part of EMP to minimize adverse environmental impacts, 
if any. Risk assessment includes Jet Fire and Vapour Cloud Explosion for blowout of wells. The 
existing Emergency Management Plan of OIL will be extended to this project, strengthened as 
necessary and implemented in the event of any emergency arising due to above mentioned risks.  
The present impact assessment study indicates that the overall impact from the proposed project will 
be short to medium term, reversible, localised and are not expected to contribute significantly to the 
surrounding environment. Also, with the implementation of the pollution control and strengthen the 
existing environment management measures, these anticipated impacts due to proposed site 
preparation and  drilling operation and decommissioning activities of the proposed project will be 
mitigated.  Summary of impact significance without mitigation measures and with mitigation 
measures is presented at the table below.  
Summary of Impact Significance without and with Mitigation Measures 
Impact Impact significance without mitigation 
measures 
Impact significance with mitigation 
measures 
Aesthetic & visual  Moderate Minor 
Land Use Negligible - 
Soil Quality Moderate Minor 
Air Quality Moderate Minor 
Noise Quality Major Moderate 
Road & Traffic Moderate Minor 
Surface Water Quality Moderate Moderate 
Ground water resource Minor Minor 
Ground Water Quality Moderate Minor 
Terrestrial Ecology Negligible - 
Minor Minor 
Major Moderate 
Aquatic Ecology Moderate Moderate 
Livelihood & Income generation Moderate Moderate 
Conflict with local people Moderate Moderate 
Benefit to Local Enterprises Positive - 
Employment Generation Positive - 
Occupational health & safety Moderate Minor 
Community health & safety Moderate Minor 
 
OIL will also ensure that the environmental performances of all the activities are monitored throughout 
execution of the project during site preparation, drilling and decommissioning phases. Monitoring will be 
carried out for ambient air quality, stack emission, noise quality, quality of treated effluents, surface and 
groundwater qualities, waste generated and disposed etc. and verified that they meet the prescribed 
standards. OIL will continue to report environmental performance and submit monitoring reports regularly 
to statutory authorities. 

--- PAGE 33 ---
21 | P a g e 
 
The effective management system coupled with monitoring of environmental components and efforts for 
continual improvements will result in satisfactory environmental performance of the proposed oil and gas 
drilling and development project.            
 
 
 
 
 
 
THANKS YOU 

--- PAGE 34 ---


--- PAGE 35 ---


--- PAGE 36 ---


--- PAGE 37 ---


--- PAGE 38 ---


--- PAGE 39 ---


--- PAGE 40 ---


--- PAGE 41 ---


--- PAGE 42 ---


--- PAGE 43 ---


--- PAGE 44 ---


--- PAGE 45 ---
 
F. No- CGWA-26/7/2021-CGWA 
Government of India 
Ministry of Jal Shakti 
Department of Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation  
Central Ground Water Authority 
PUBLIC NOTICE No. 11/2023 
New Delhi, Dated 1st August, 2023 
(In supersession of the Public Notice no. 06/2023 dated 11.05.2023 regarding 
“Exemption to obtain NOC for ground water well drilling used for scientific study by 
Government Organisation/Institute”) 
  
Sub: Exemption to obtain NOC for ground water well drilling used for scientific 
study by Government Organisation/Institute – reg. 
Whereas the Central Government constituted the Central Ground Water Authority (hereinafter 
referred to as the Authority) vide notification Number S.O. 38(E), dated 14th January, 1997, 
followed by notificati on number S.O. 1124(E) dated 6th November, 2000 and S.O. 1121 (E) 
dated 13th May, 2010 of the Government of India in the Ministry of Environment & Forests, for 
the purposes of regulation and control of ground water development and management in the 
whole of India and to issue necessary regulatory directions. 
And whereas, the Ministry of Jal Shakti has issued ‘Guidelines to control and regulate ground 
water extraction in India’ vide notification number S.O. 3289(E) dated 24th September, 2020, 
notified by Dep artment of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, 
Ministry of Jal Shakti. 
And whereas an Amendment Notification dated 29.03.2023 has been further issued by Ministry 
of Jal Shakti, published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part I I, section 3, sub-section (ii), 
vide Notification number S.O. 1509 (E). 
This is to bring to the notice that-: 
• Government organizations/Institutes dealing in ground water well drilling, such as drilling 
of Exploratory well , Piezometer, Observation Well, Pilot well etc. for scientific studies 
and exploration activities, and such PSUs like ONGC, Oil India Ltd. etc. involved in 
research and exploration activities requiring site -specific temporary borewells,  
shall remain exempt ed from seeking of No Objection Certificate for Ground Water 
extraction for the period of scientific studies, from Central Ground Water Authority. 
• However, such Government organizations/Institutes shall be required to submit details of 
the drilling to the concerned Regional Office of CGWB. 
• In case, another agency uses the well for ground water extraction, after the completion 
of scientific studies and explora tion activities, the same shall be required to obtain No 
Objection Certificate from CGWA as per the due process. 
  
Member Secretary 
 CGWA 
 
Annexure - E

